              ’ s Guide
           ei           to
  m    p




                           W
 Go




             2023-24         PI

for students by students
     All the things you need to know
    G ompe i ’s Gui d e to WPI



    Table of Contents

                Welcome to WPI. We’re Glad You’re Here ................................ 4



                What is WPI about anyway? ......................................................... 5



                A Year in the Life of a WPI Student............................................10



                How to Make the Most of WPI....................................................15



                Getting Around Campus ............................................................. 22



                Academic Success ......................................................................... 26



                Project-Based Learning ............................................................... 41



                Meeting People, Getting Involved, and Having Fun ......... 45



2    [ back to contents ]
                                                                                      2023-24




Living On and Around Campus ................................................ 55



Be Well Together: Wellness Resources on Campus ........... 61



WPI’s Diversity Is Our Strength.................................................. 66



Exploring Worcester ..................................................................... 70



Safety On and Off Campus ......................................................... 74



Technology You Should Know and Use ................................. 80



Finances ............................................................................................ 85



Getting an Internship or a Job .................................................. 88



Who to Contact .............................................................................. 92



                                                                       [ back to contents ]                3
    G ompe i ’s Gui d e to WPI



    Welcome to WPI.
    We’re Glad You’re Here.
    This guide is intended to help you find your way here
    at Worcester Polytechnic Institute and to provide you
    with tips and tricks to make the most of your WPI experience. If you
    have a question, odds are the answer is in here. If you can’t find it,
    ask a friend, your advisor, your resident advisor, your coach, or your
    professor. We all want to help you succeed here on campus.




4    [ back to contents ]
                                                               2023-24



What is WPI about anyway?
WPI’s Mission
 WPI’s mission speaks to the legacy of its history and
 also our aspirations for the future:
“WPI transforms lives, turns knowledge into action to confront
 global challenges, and revolutionizes STEM through distinctive and
 inclusive education, projects, and research.”

WPI’s Values
The mission is formed by WPI’s values: respect, community, inclusion,
innovation, and achievement.

WPI’s Student Code of Conduct
These values also inform the expectations as set forth in
the WPI Student Code of Conduct. It’s important to read
the code and know what’s expected of you as a student.
Click or scan the QR code to the right to learn more.

WPI’s Strategic Plan
Lead with Purpose will inform university priorities from 2021 to 2026.
It includes three focuses.
• Student well-being, access, and affordability
• Inclusive community
• Purpose-driven education and research
Learn more about our goals and process by clicking or
scanning the QR code to the right.

                                                     [ back to contents ]   5
    G ompe i ’s Gui d e to WPI


    WPI Plan
    Established in 1970, the WPI Plan set WPI on the path for innovation in
    STEM education that continues to serve us well. Through our distinct
    focus on project work and collaborative learning, we learn how to
    solve real-world problems. Here are things to know about the Plan:
    • Instead of semesters, we have 7-week terms.
    • There are no prerequisite courses; instead, there are
      recommendations for the background you should have before
      taking a particular class. For example, to take Calculus II, you do
      not need to take Calculus I, but it is recommended you have the
      background from Calculus I.
    • There are no failing grades. Instead, students earn an A, B, C, or NR
      (No Record). WPI wants students to take risks, try new things, and
      experiment without fear of penalty.
    • Our motto is Lehr und Kunst, meaning Theory and Practice. Hands-
      on doing is a pivotal part of the education at WPI.
    • You’ll get an interdisciplinary education here at WPI. You don’t
      solve a problem through one perspective. Instead, you draw on
      multiple skills in different contexts and you work with people from
      diverse backgrounds.
    • We prioritize collaboration over competition.
    • These nine words are critical to your success at WPI: Go to class. Do
      the work. Ask for help. If you do those three things, you’re bound to
      set yourself up for success.




6    [ back to contents ]
                                                            2023-24



We Love Acronyms at WPI
• Some students even joke that WPI = We Prefer Initials
• Here are a few that are especially useful:


PROJECTS
GPS        Great Problems Seminar
HUA        Humanities & Arts
ISP        Independent Study Program
IQP        Interactive Qualifying Project
MQP        Major Qualifying Project
GQP        Graduate Qualifying Project


PEOPLE
CA         Community Advisor
CK         Crimson Key Tour Guide
IA         Insight Advisor
PLA        Peer Learning Assistant
PA         Program Ambassador
RC         Recruitment Counselor
RA         Resident Advisor
SA         Student Assistant
TA         Teaching Assistant




                                                  [ back to contents ]   7
    G ompe i ’s Gui d e to WPI




           “Google
             Sometimes the answers are as easy to get as a
                   search or asking a friend. I didn’t know
             my way around campus until a full term into
             freshman year. If I didn’t know where to go, I
           asked a random person and made a new friend on
              campus or threw my question on Google.
                                                                ”
                              Vrandol Perez ’23




    PLACES
    ARC         Academic Resource Center
    ATC         Academic Technology Center
    CDC         Heebner Career Development Center
    EPC         Exam Proctoring Center
    GEO         Global Experience Office
    ISL         International Student Life
    OAA         Office of Academic Advising
    OAS         Office of Accessibility Services
    ODIME       Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Multicultural Education
    RCC         Rubin Campus Center
    SAO         Student Activities Office
    SDCC        Student Development and Counseling Center
    SVSC        South Village Student Center


                  Want to get the scoop on what you’re hearing?
                  Click or scan the QR code on the left to find more
                  commonly used acronyms.


8    [ back to contents ]
                                                              2023-24



Reasons Why 7-Week Terms Are Great
• You get to break the year up into easy-to-manage sections. You
  get to focus on only 3 courses over 7 weeks instead of having your
  mind all over the place. Terms go fast, so be sure to stay on top of
  your time.
• You get to meet more often with your 3 professors—learn their
  names and introduce yourself.
• When you’re taking a test, you’re reviewing information
  from a week or two ago, not months ago, which is better for
  short-term recall.
• Taking 3 courses in a term compared to 5 or 6 during a traditional
  semester system means you have more time outside of class for
  extracurricular activities/hobbies.
• The term system also allows you to get into and be prepared for
  major-specific classes faster.
• Breaks between terms do not have work; at other schools you
  would likely have work to do during the breaks.




       “  Don’t be afraid to ask. I have gotten my MQP
     application, homework, projects, and more deadlines
     extended just by reaching out. Professors are people
      too and they are often willing to accommodate.
                                                               ”
                          Mason Vega ’22




                                                    [ back to contents ]   9
     G ompe i ’s Gui d e to WPI



     A Year in the Life of a WPI Student
     First-Year Student
     As a first-year student, active participation in New
     Student Orientation (NSO) and in Insight is key in
     setting yourself up for success the rest of the school year. WPI has
     many opportunities in academics and co-curricular activities. The
     transition to college can be challenging and making new friends and
     exploring new opportunities can help with that transition. Here are a
     few things that you can expect with your WPI experience:


     A-Term
     Check out the Activities Fairs and Community Service Fair.
     Enjoy the warm weather while it lasts.
     Try to meet someone new every day if you can—it’s a great way to
     build your network. Talk to a classmate, attend a club meeting, chat
     with someone while in line at the dining hall.
     Go to the Career Fair, which is run twice a year by the Career
     Development Center (CDC), in September and February.
     Explore clubs and try intramural sports.
     Establish a routine, whether that be working out, setting times to
     eat with your friends, etc.
     Attend Pep Rally, a Student Government Association (SGA) event.
     Invite your family to come for Family Weekend in the Fall.
     Participate in Homecoming Weekend, a large campus event.




10    [ back to contents ]
                                                                2023-24



B-Term
Declare your major by the end of B-Term. Before getting your
major-specific advisor, meet with your Insight Advisor.
Many clubs hold elections for their executive positions in B-Term, a
great opportunity to become more involved in any organization.
Try rushing a fraternity or participating in sorority recruitment. They
often give out free food and you get to participate in fun events, such
as lawn games, paintball, hiking, cooking, car smashes, and more.
Participate in Student Activities Office (SAO) trips. They typically go to
Six Flags, corn mazes, apple picking, and many other trips for cheap.
Visit the greenhouse when free plants are given out; it can be a big
boost for mental health.
Attend a diversity program hosted by the Office of Diversity,
Inclusion, and Multicultural Education (ODIME) or one of WPI’s
multicultural affinity groups.
If you want to live off campus, begin your search for off-campus
housing, whether that is fraternity/sorority housing or an
apartment. Pro tip: don’t sign a lease until after rush/recruitment
ends if you are considering a fraternity or sorority. Additional tip:
off-campus housing is available year-round, no pressure to sign a
lease immediately.




       “success.
          Always prioritize yourself over your academic
                 You should be happy at WPI – pushing
    yourself too hard to excel in your classes is not worth
        it if your mental or physical health falters.
                                                              ”
                            RJ Franzen ’24



                                                      [ back to contents ]   11
     G ompe i ’s Gui d e to WPI


     C-Term
     Meet with your major-specific advisor, especially on Academic
     Advising Day in February.
     Participate in the second career fair in February.
     It should be snowy outside by now, so go have a snowball fight or
     sled down the hill in Institute Park.
     Go out to restaurants—there are tons of great eats in the city.
     C-Term can get monotonous with the cold weather and switching
     up a routine is an effective way to boost mental health.
     If you want to live on campus, check your email for communication
     from Residential Services and form a group.


     D-Term
     Enjoy the spring weather on the Quad. Pickup games of spike ball,
     frisbee, and volleyball are popular around this time.
     Register for classes for next year—you’ll pick a whole year’s worth
     of classes in D-Term.
     Participate in Quadfest, a week-long event filled with prizes and
     games that culminates in the Big Show: a concert the Social
     Committee (SocComm) puts on each spring.
     Greek Week is full of wacky competitions and events hosted by
     fraternities and sororities.
     There are so many fun activities and events such as Relay for Life,
     the Pan Asian Festival, the Black Student Union (BSU) Fashion Show,
     the International Festival, and Pride Week.




12    [ back to contents ]
                                                                 2023-24



Second Year
Here are some things you’ll do your sophomore year:
• Apply for IQP in B-Term. Check your email for messages from the
  Global Experience Office (GEO).
• Attend programming offered by the Office of Academic Advising.
• Participate in leadership roles and opportunities.
• Spiff up your resume with support from the Career Development
  Center (CDC) and apply for internships.
• Think about moving off campus for junior year or joining a
  fraternity or sorority if you opted out your first year.

Third Year
Junior year is often when you’ll shift to lots of major-specific
programming. Here are a few milestones:
• Complete your IQP. As one of your peers says, “Helping out a
  community in another place really opens your eyes.”
• Secure your MQP for senior year. Generally, each department will
  send out a list of projects that are being offered for the upcoming
  year during the D-Term of your junior year. Each list will be
  accompanied by a description of the project and and information
  about the professors who are advising it. Some students will
  also come up with their own MQPs if they have an idea that they
  would like to pursue or would like to continue a project from
  another class.
• Do a co-op, which involves taking time off from classes (typically
  for a term or two) to work at a company. Co-ops are a way to get
  lots of experience quickly and also get paid for it.
• Apply for an internship.
                                                       [ back to contents ]   13
     G ompe i ’s Gui d e to WPI


     Fourth Year
     • Present your MQP at the Undergraduate Research Projects
       Showcase.
     • Make sure to run through the fountain before you graduate.
     • Senior Week: the time at the end of the year between the last day
       of classes and commencement. Lots of fun events are planned for
       seniors, like the food truck fests, WooSox games, and more.
     • Search for a job or apply to graduate school.
     • Graduate!




14    [ back to contents ]
                                                             2023-24



How to Make the Most of WPI
Academics
• Be early on the first day of class! It makes a good
  first impression on your professors, and you can claim
  a good seat.
• If you’re having trouble affording books, the Gordon Library usually
  has textbooks on reserve or on the shelf, just ask at the front desk
  for help finding them.
• Talk to returning students, your advisors, and faculty when
  picking out your schedule. They know the classes and can offer
  some great advice.
• Seven weeks go by fast! If you don’t understand the material, get
  help sooner rather than later to stay on schedule.
• You can take whatever classes you want at any time. This allows
  you to experiment and take classes that would’ve been otherwise
  out of reach without the prerequisites. That being said, be
  careful to ensure you have the “recommended background” of
  courses. Communicate with your academic/faculty advisors or the
  professors on what preparation is recommended.
• Challenging yourself is encouraged at WPI, but be wary of taking
  on too much. There are three (3) NRs built into almost every
  major so you have a good fallback system. If you’re coming in
  with AP/IB/other credit, you can also challenge yourself more with
  your classes and branch out.




                                                   [ back to contents ]   15
     G ompe i ’s Gui d e to WPI


     • No Records (NRs) are meant to encourage you to challenge
       yourself and serve as a safety net. Getting an NR is perfectly OK!
       Most students end up NR-ing at some point. It is not seen as a fail
       as it literally will not be on your record. NRs do not count toward
       your GPA. However, multiple NRs may delay graduation or cost
       more money over time—be careful not to rack up too many NRs
       too soon.
     • Supports are available for students who struggle in their
       first year. Talk to staff in the Academic Advising Office to
       learn more or click or scan the QR code to the right.
     • There are tons of free resources on campus ranging from the
       Makerspace in the Innovation Studio, tech suites in the Library,
       fitness classes in the Recreation Center, and more.

     Housing and Dining
     • Use Goatbucks instead of cash or credit to save 10% at many
       campus dining locations. You can add money to your Goatbucks
       using the GET app, or by adding cash at the machines in the Library
       (located near the printers on the main floor).
     • If you find yourself not using all your meal swipes, you can swipe in
       a friend and eat together. They will be grateful.
     • Be respectful of your roommates. You’re living with each other all
       year, so better start off on a good note. Re-visit your roommate
       agreement a few weeks into the year to change what things look like
       in your space—guests, noise levels, use of each other’s items, etc.
     • Talk to your RAs if you’re having a roommate issue. They are
       trained in conflict mediation, and if the problem can’t be solved
       (which is rare), they can help you connect with your Community
       Director to discuss other options.


16    [ back to contents ]
                                                                 2023-24



Staying Organized/Accessing Technology
• Use a calendar, planner, and/or Outlook to plan and to keep
  yourself organized. A lot happens here, so use at least one of these
  to keep on top of things. In addition, many people will use Outlook
  invites to schedule meetings and events, so using your Outlook
  calendar to keep your schedule all in one place can be helpful.
• Turn notifications on for your Outlook email so that you don’t miss
  important messages. Check Outlook daily. Use your calendar so
  people can easily book meetings with you and see when you’re free.
• Printers are in the Library, South Village Student Center, and Rubin
  Campus Center. You can pay per page using Goatbucks.

Creating a Welcoming Community
• One of the things we pride ourselves on at WPI is building a place
  where all people are valued. To do this, it’s incredibly important for
  you to recognize and address any biases you may have. At the end
  of the day, everyone wants to feel welcome and included. If you
  keep being welcoming and being inclusive as your top priorities,
  that will go a long way.
• A lot of people share their pronouns in their email signatures,
  Zoom names, Canvas, Slack, etc. It helps people know how to refer
  to you and helps you know how to refer to others when you may
  not know their gender identity and/or pronouns.
• Coming to college means getting exposed to people from all walks
  of life, cultures, heritages, and faith traditions. If you don’t know
  something about someone else’s identity, culture, traditions, or
  values, think carefully about how you inquire about it. Google can
  be a useful tool so you don’t ask an offensive question.



                                                       [ back to contents ]   17
     G ompe i ’s Gui d e to WPI


     • Check in on your friends and classmates. WPI can be challenging and
       lonely for a lot of students who might be homesick or who might
       not have a lot of people who look like them around. It is important to
       make sure people feel seen and valued in this community.

     Social Life on Campus
     • Clubs/organizations, club sports, and campus jobs are a great
       way to meet people on campus and gain opportunities. It is also
       simultaneously OK to not be involved in tons of stuff on campus.
       Try to get involved in one or two things, not fifty.
     • To figure out what you like, you can join the mailing lists for a
       bunch of clubs at the beginning of the year and find what fits best
       into your schedule and your preferences. You are not bound to any
       club, sport, or group if you join their mailing list.
     • Networking is a great way to open doors for yourself after
       graduation. Meeting people in classes, clubs, fraternity and sorority
       life, and other areas of campus are great opportunities to set
       yourself up for the future.
     • The Sports and Recreation Center offers state-of-the art athletic
       facilities, fitness classes, intramurals, and more for students to
       embrace a healthy lifestyle.
     • Going to the events on campus is worth it. They are often fun, less
       expensive, unique opportunities you wouldn’t have elsewhere and
       they let you meet new people.
     • Use MyWπ and Instagram and look at emails for the events to
       make the most of your WPI experience.




18    [ back to contents ]
                                                                2023-24



• There are tons of clubs with recurring events weekly. For
  example, the Video Game Association does a weekly Smash Bros.
  Tournament, the Science Fiction Society does Friday night gaming
  in the Campus Center, and there are free movie nights from
  SocComm every weekend with popcorn.
• There is a piano on the bottom floor of Fuller Labs and in every
  music room on the lower floor of Alden Hall. No need to reserve,
  just knock first to see if someone is using the room. They are free
  for everyone to use.
• Cinema.wpi.edu is an awesome website to watch free movies
  (must be on WPI Wi-Fi to access). Have movie recommendations?
  Reach out to Residential Services to see if they can be added!

Seek Resources.
Remember ... faculty and staff want to help you.
• Developing relationships with faculty and staff can take time; don’t
  be afraid to reach out first. Professors become professors because
  they want to help students like you.
• Your professors and advisors really do care about you and your
  well-being. Don’t be afraid to ask for an extension if you need
  one. Most understand the rigorous and tight curriculum and are
  very flexible.
• Don’t be afraid to ask for help. This means attending tutoring and
  office hours or asking friends to study with you.
• Don’t be afraid to ask questions! Professors love it when students
  ask questions or go to see them during office hours. Often you will
  be able to get help understanding the material, and sometimes
  just asking for help will earn you points back on assignments.



                                                      [ back to contents ]   19
     G ompe i ’s Gui d e to WPI


     • Discussion sections are useful. Talk to the Teaching Assistants
       or Student Assistants—they were students in the class at some
       point, too.
     • Reach out to the Office of Accessibility Services
       (see QR code to the right) if you need classroom,
       testing, or housing accommodations. These can be
       accommodations based on disability or temporary
       accommodations based on injury or long-term illness.

     Prioritizing Mental Health Over Grades
     • Finishing with a 99 in a class is the same as finishing with a 91—
       they’re both an A. Sometimes it is worth putting in less effort and
       not getting a perfect grade so that you can go to that event you
       want to attend, get a good night’s sleep, or take a minute to focus
       on your wellness.
     • Don’t judge your success based on others. Remember, only you
       can define your success. A lot of students come to WPI being highly
       motivated and excelling in high school, and it’s a very different feeling
       when everyone else is as smart and academically motivated as you.
     • You will probably fail homework, quizzes, exams, and even classes
       during your time at WPI, which is OK. Nobody will remember years
       from now what your score was on your physics midterm your first
       year. You can almost always bounce back from one or two poor
       grades and still finish well in a class.
     • There are summer classes available. Classes are usually online, and
       some professors let you “make-up” any NRs or underloading. It’s a
       great way to manage how many classes you have to take over the
       traditional academic year.




20    [ back to contents ]
                                                               2023-24



• Depending on what your major is, many companies do not ask
  what your GPA is or whether you’re graduating with honors.
  Prioritize taking care of yourself instead of stressing yourself out
  over a final/homework which, in the grand scheme of things, likely
  means very little.
• When stressed, try to put things into perspective. Always look
  back and ask yourself if it will matter in five years or even one year;
  most often that will help put things in perspective with specific
  assignments and tests. It’s OK to make the conscious choice to take
  a lower grade, drop, or NR a class for your own health.




     “dayEnjoy every second—both the bad and good. One
           you will not be living next to your best friends.
     They could be across the country or even across the
    globe. Enjoy the late night studying for finals, playing
    frisbee on the Quad, and the many meals with friends
      before everyone is on their own path elsewhere.
                                                                ”
                         Michaela Cluett ’25




    “toThere is always time to make a change—this applies
       your major, your social life, your sport, anything.
                                                           ”
                       Brynne MacWilliams ’25




                                                     [ back to contents ]   21
     G ompe i ’s Gui d e to WPI



     Getting Around Campus
     Campus Map
     The WPI Campus Map is a great resource to locate
     campus buildings and residence halls, as well as gender
     inclusive (look under restrooms) and accessible restrooms (look
     under accessibility).


                    Click or scan the QR code on the left to view
                    WPI’s Interactive Map.


     The hours for most buildings are posted on the WPI website. In
     general, for academic buildings on campus that have 24/7 computer
     labs (for example: Atwater Kent, Salisbury Labs), once inside the
     building, anyone can stay as late as they want. Some buildings at
     later hours will require key card access, so make sure to bring your ID.

     Spots to Check Out on Campus
     Here are some tips from fellow students about cool spaces to hang out:
     • Have a game night with friends in the Rubin Campus Center.
     • Grab food and book a tech suite in the South Village Student Center
       to watch a movie with friends or check out the Gaming Lounge.
     • There is a reflection space on the first floor of the Library that has
       the sole purpose of allowing those in the WPI community to take
       time to quiet the mind.
     • Higgins House has a nice outdoor space that is very picturesque and
       quiet. There are swings at Higgins House and a reflection garden.

22     [ back to contents ]
                                                               2023-24



• Grab coffee with a friend at Starbucks in the Goat’s Head in
  Founders Hall.
• Meet a friend to study in the Wedge (area between Morgan and
  Daniels Halls).
• Hang out on the Quad (if it’s a nice day).
• Visit the OASIS Multicultural Center (OASIS House), the Collegiate
  Religious Center (CRC), and the International House to attend a
  diversity program, learn about different cultures, grab some free
  snacks, cook some food, do your homework, study with your
  friends, play video games, or watch TV.
• Set up a hammock or slackline at the Fountain.
• Meet a friend at the red couches overlooking the fields in the
  Rec Center.
• Use the Student-Athlete study area in the Rec Center.
• Meet a friend in the Rubin Campus Center for some Dunkin’.
• Play billiards at the pool tables on the bottom floor of the Rubin
  Campus Center.
• Study at one of the corner spaces in Unity Hall at sunset.
• Grab a smoothie in the Innovation Studio and innovate in
  the Makerspace.
• There are tons of student lounges across campus. Some examples
  are the Atwater Kent Student Lounge (First Floor), the Physics
  Lounge in Olin Hall (First Floor), the Kaven Hall Student Lounge
  (First Floor), and Salisbury Labs (First Floor).




                                                    [ back to contents ]   23
     G ompe i ’s Gui d e to WPI


     Campus Transportation Options
     There are tons of ways to get around campus.
     • Gompei’s Gears Bike Share
       Come be part of the free bike share program for the
       WPI community. You can rent a bike for up to eight
       hours at a time using the Bloom app. For a map of
       bike racks and to join the program, click or scan the
       QR code to the right.
     • Valet Park Shuttles
       Valet Park operates a safety transportation program to
       help people get safely to and from campus. To access
       the program, you must download the TransLoc app to
       order the shuttle. Click or scan QR code to the right.

     Valet Park Provides Two Shuttle Services
     A night-time shuttle, commonly known as SNAP, and
     a “winter use” daytime shuttle.
     SNAP (Student Night Assistance Patrol)
     SNAP shuttles will operate seven nights a week 6:00 p.m. until 2:00 a.m.
     beginning on Sunday, August 20 and ending Saturday, December 16
     and resuming Sunday, January 7 and ending Saturday, May 4.
     Winter Use Daytime Shuttle
     8:00 a.m. until 4:00 p.m. Monday through Friday only, beginning
     Monday, November 27 and ending Friday, December 15 and
     resuming Monday January 8 and ending Friday March 29
     No Service
     • Thursday, November 23 (Thanksgiving)
     • Winter Break (December 17 until January 7)
     • Monday, January 15 (no service for daytime shuttle)


24     [ back to contents ]
                                                                 2023-24



General Guidelines for Using SNAP:
• Not available for transportation to/from restaurants, bars,
  commercial properties, etc.
• Available within a one mile radius of 100 Institute Road for use to/from:
 -   campus to/from off-campus housing.
 -   campus to/from campus locations.
 -   Price Chopper (221-222 Park Ave.) during business hours.
 -   CVS (44 West Boylston St.) during business hours.
 -   Union Station during business hours.
• Either, or both, of your “pick-up” or “drop off”
  location(s) must be an “On Demand Shuttle Stop.”
  A listing is at the QR code to the right or on the
  Campus Police website.
• Valet Park will not provide transportation from a residential address
  to a residential address, a residential address to a commercial
  address, or a commercial address to a commercial address.

Parking
To park on campus, you need to have a parking pass.
To learn more about who qualifies for a pass and how to
get one, click or scan the QR code on the right.
Street parking is available on a limited basis, but pay
close attention to signage, as you may get a ticket from
the City of Worcester if there’s a ban for snow or street
sweeping or if parked illegally. Click or scan the QR
code on the right to see the specific winter parking ban
routes where you can search by street.




                                                       [ back to contents ]   25
     G ompe i ’s Gui d e to WPI



     Academic Success
     You’re here to get an education after all, so
     here’s everything you need to know to succeed
     academically.

     Degree Requirements
     Every major at WPI follows a Program Tracking Sheet. The Program
     Tracking Sheets contain curriculum options available to WPI students
     for use in planning and tracking progress toward their degree.
     Download the tracking sheet for your major and year to
     help you plan your schedule.
     Click or scan the QR code on the right to find your
     Program Tracking Sheet.
     As you map out your academic plan, if you are strategic,
     sometimes courses can double count, for example, as
     both a minor course and an elective course. See what you can double
     count if you are doing the following:
     • a major/minor
     • double major
     • BS/MS degree
     Double counting courses can save space in your schedule for a class
     that you are interested in taking, if you are planning to pursue a
     minor, or perhaps take a few graduate courses while completing your
     undergraduate degree. With that said, do not feel the need to do “more
     in four [years].” While it is great to have this option, it is not necessary,
     and the benefit should really be considered with the effort needed.



26    [ back to contents ]
                                                               2023-24



Every student completes 135 credits for graduation. These include:


Interactive Qualifying Project                     9 credits
Major Qualifying Project                           9 credits
Humanities & Arts courses                          18 credits
Social Science courses (ID2050 can count if you    6 credits
plan to do your IQP away from campus)
Physical Education courses                         3 credits
Major-specific requirements                        45 credits
Other required courses (varies by major)           45 credits


Academic Resources You Should Know
• Academic Advising (Unity Hall)
  The Academic Advising offices help students plan their academic
  time while at WPI. This includes helping you to understand degree
  requirements as you make your academic plans. The Office of
  Academic Advising oversees the Academic Resources Center,
  which is home to the Math and Science Help (MASH) and tutoring
  programs. The Insight Program, a distinct first-year program
  focused on assisting students with the transition to college, Pre-
  Health programs, and Fellowship Advising are also coordinated
  through the Office of Academic Advising. The Office of Academic
  Advising can also help students to plan to complete a BS/MS in
  their desired field.




                                                   [ back to contents ]   27
     G ompe i ’s Gui d e to WPI


     • Academic Resource Center ARC (Unity Hall)
       The ARC offers several academic resources for students. This
       includes tutoring for various subjects and “MASH” (Math and
       Science Help), which are open group tutoring sessions that help
       students in their classes. The student-based, collaborative learning
       environment of the ARC offers individualized assistance in a variety
       of subjects as well as a comprehensive peer-tutoring program
     	Math and Science Help Center
       In MASH sessions, you will meet with other students
       who are taking the same course. You can discuss any
       difficulties you are having understanding the material or
       a specific problem, talk about the class, compare notes,
       discuss assignments and lectures, as well as ask questions and
       improve your study skills. Click or scan the QR code to the right for
       more information about session times and courses offered.
      Appointment Tutoring Program
     	
      Tutoring sessions, unlike MASH sessions, allow students to work
      one-on-one or in a small group with a tutor rather than in a larger
      group. Tutoring is offered Mondays through Thursdays from 10:00
      a.m. - 9:00 p.m., Fridays from 10:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m., and Sundays
      from 12:00 p.m. - 9:00 pm.




        “notItaismistake
                  OK to challenge yourself and fall short. Failing is
                         as it is a learning experience to allow you
          to grow and develop. Professors are always willing to
         lend a hand to help if you are struggling, so just reach
              out or simply show up to their office hours.
                                                                   ”
                               Zachary Rioux ’25



28    [ back to contents ]
                                                               2023-24



Other Places to Get Academic Help
• Math Tutoring Center (MTC) (Gordon Library, Room 302)
  Teaching Assistants (TAs) for all math classes hold office hours to
  help students with homework and general studying and math help.
  They assist students with homework/concepts/general questions
  in areas such as calculus, differential equations, linear algebra, and
  many others. Drop-in tutoring, no appointment needed!
• Physics Lounge (Olin Hall)
  Filled with comfy couches and chairs, physics Teaching Assistants
  (TAs) hold office hours to help students.
• The Writing Center (Salisbury 233)
  The Writing Center helps students improve their written, oral,
  and visual communication. Trained writing tutors provide peer
  tutoring for individuals and teams on any type of communication
  project, including course papers, presentations, dissertations, and
  job-related documents. Tutors can help you at any stage of your
  composing process: when you’re still in early stages of brainstorming
  and finding direction; when you’re in the middle stages of drafting
  ideas and organizing paragraphs; or when you’re in the late stages of
  your writing, polishing your prose for maximum clarity.




         “ The world is a wide, amazing, and beautiful
       place. The resources at WPI—professors, friends,
        organizations, projects, and beyond—will help
       you explore this world if you let it. Jump in, don’t
           be afraid. Stay curious. Stay teachable.
                                                          ”
                           Sam Levitan ’24



                                                     [ back to contents ]   29
     G ompe i ’s Gui d e to WPI


     Academic Advisors
     Every student is assigned at least three different academic advisors
     during their time at WPI. Each of these advisors is listed in Workday
     with their contact information. To maximize your experience with
     your advisor, reach out to them and introduce yourself. Schedule a
     meeting and spend some time getting to know them and sharing a
     bit about yourself and your goals. They can be a great resource for
     you and, if they know you well enough, can possibly provide you a
     letter of recommendation.
     • Insight Advisor: This is your advisor for the first two terms you’re
       at WPI. They are a faculty or staff member who can guide you
       through your first semester at WPI and will help you choose your
       C & D Term courses. Once you declare your major, which generally
       happens in November of your first year, your Insight Advisor will be
       replaced with a faculty advisor in your major.
     • Faculty Advisor: Once you declare your major, you will be
       assigned a faculty advisor in your major. This person is a great
       resource to assist you in choosing major-specific courses, can help
       advise you on selecting an MQP, and can help guide you as you
       consider your career post college.
     • Academic Advisor: You also have an academic advisor in the
       Office of Academic Advising for your full four years at WPI. They can
       assist you with meeting degree requirements outside your major
       as well as support in implementing academic success strategies.
     You can change your advisors if you want. Contact the Office of
     Academic Advising for more guidance if you have an interest in
     pursuing this option.




30    [ back to contents ]
                                                              2023-24



Other Academic Resources to Know
• Registrar’s Office (Unity Hall)
  The Registrar’s Office ensures adherence to WPI’s academic policy
  as well as preserves academic integrity and protects the security
  of academic records. The Registrar’s Office helps students register
  for courses and keep track of their credits. The website has lots of
  forms that can be quite useful.
• Academic Technology Center (ATC )(Fuller Labs)
  The ATC offers instructional design services and technology
  consultations as well as technology rentals and large-format poster
  printing.
• Global Experience Office (GEO) (Project Center)
  The GEO assists students in their journey traveling off campus
  for their Humanities Requirement and Interactive and Major
  Qualifying Projects.

Academic Advising Day
• Academic Advising Day is a specific day for you to meet with your
  faculty advisor and talk to them about your classes, four-year
  plan, career plan, etc. It’s also a good day to meet with the head
  of your department and get to know them. If you create a good
  relationship with your faculty advisor, they could help you adjust
  your classes (if necessary) or help count classes to make sure you
  meet all requirements.
• Remember, you don’t have to wait until Academic Advising Day
  to meet with your advisors. You can do this anytime—simply send
  them an email or propose an Outlook calendar meeting.




                                                    [ back to contents ]   31
     G ompe i ’s Gui d e to WPI


     Registering for Classes
     • Check out course listings on this easy-to search site
       (courselistings.wpi.edu). You can see what’s open
       and what has waitlist spots available.
     • Course registration is done using Workday
       (myworkday.com). As you plan your schedule,
       you will want to work with your faculty advisor or
       your academic advisor, as well as consult your
       Program Tracking Sheet.
     • As you plan your schedule you can use
       oscar.wpi.edu when picking courses. This shows
       actual course evaluations by class and by professor.
       It’s a great way to find the best classes for you and to
       learn about different professors.
     • The WPI Planner can help you to see the terms that
       courses are offered, along with the professor and
       times available. It’s a great way to help you build your
       schedule and see the many combinations that work
       for your schedule.
     • When it’s time to schedule your courses, make sure to have a saved
       schedule before registration begins to help you add your courses
       efficiently. You also want to be prepared with a few back-up
       courses in case your first-choice options are full.
     • If you don’t get the classes you wanted, don’t despair. Reach out to
       your academic advisor and they can help you.
     • Many students try to make sure they have a balanced schedule
       so they can have a healthy schedule. For example, one student
       suggests: “two core classes, and one humanities/free elective” as an
       ideal schedule.

32    [ back to contents ]
                                                                2023-24



Academic Accessibility Accommodations
Office of Accessibility Services (Unity Hall)
The Office of Accessibility Services (OAS) coordinates
accommodation services. It also advocates and
supports students with documented physical, learning,
sensory, psychological, developmental, and temporary
disabilities. Click or scan the QR code to the right to fill
out the intake form to get started. If you are approved for test taking
accommodations, you may take your tests in the Exam Proctoring
Center (EPC) in Unity Hall.

How to Talk with a Professor If You Need Flexibility
or Additional Support
Whether you’re sick, have a personal conflict, have a religious event,
or need some flexibility on an assignment, consider speaking to your
professor in person ahead of time, to the extent possible. You can often
use the professor’s published office hours to have these conversations.
You can also reach out to them via email. Often those requests go best
when you can map out an alternative suggested plan to get the work
completed.

How to Change Your Major
You can change your major easily. Click or scan the QR
code to the right for instructions.

Overloading
Overloading happens when students take more than 18 credits
(7 or more classes a semester not including PE/Wellness courses). This
can result in an additional fee if you exceed 21 credits. Speak with your
academic advisor before you decide to overload.

                                                      [ back to contents ]   33
     G ompe i ’s Gui d e to WPI


     Math Related Resources
     Utilize this QR code to link to the Math Placement Canvas
     Page to find more information about math related AP
     credit, retroactive credit, the Calculus sequence at WPI,
     and your math placement recommendation.

     Transfer Classes
     WPI may accept credits from other accredited colleges
     and universities that meet the quality and rigor of a WPI
     course. To learn more about the process for earning
     transfer credit, click or scan the QR code to the right. The
     Transfer Credit website provides excellent guidance.

     Consortium Classes
     WPI is part of a consortium of other colleges that allows
     you to register for classes at other area colleges. To learn
     more, consult the Registrar’s website by clicking or
     scanning the QR code to the right.

     Using the Library
     The Gordon Library offers many resources to support you
     academically, ranging from accessing books and journals
     for research projects to great places to study. To learn
     more, explore the Gordon Library website by clicking or
     scanning the QR code to the right. Here are few helpful
     resources you’ll find:
     • Search for books and journals using the Gordon Library’s research tools.
     • Connect with a Research Librarian, who can help you find source
       material for your GPS course, IQP/MQP, HUA project, and more.


34    [ back to contents ]
                                                               2023-24



• Book a tech suite for yourself or a group. You can do
  this by clicking or scanning the QR code to the right.
  You can book it online at any time (even in the middle
  of the night!). About 5 minutes before your reservation
  time begins, go to the Library desk to scan your ID and
  get a key for the door.
• InterLibrary loans are a cool way of accessing books
  that our Library does not already have. Click or scan
  the QR code to the right to learn more.
• Find a place to study. There are lots of study spaces in
  the Library that are great for focusing. You can view
  the current Library occupancy by clicking or scanning
  the QR code to the right.

Undergraduate Majors and Their Acronyms
MAC           Actuarial Mathematics
AE            Aerospace Engineering
              Applied Physics
AREN          Architectural Engineering
CBC           Chemistry & Biochemistry
BCB           Bioinformatics and Computational Biology
BBT           Bio/Biotechnology
BME           Biomedical Engineering
BUS           Business
CHE           Chemical Engineering
CH            Chemistry
CE            Civil Engineering
CS            Computer Science
DS            Data Science
ECON          Economics
ECE           Electrical Computer Engineering

                                                     [ back to contents ]   35
     G ompe i ’s Gui d e to WPI


     ENV             Environmental and Sustainability Studies
     EVE             Environmental Engineering
     HUA             Humanities & Arts
     IE              Industrial Engineering
     IMGD            Interactive Media and Game Development
                     International & Global Studies
     LAE             Liberal Arts & Engineering
     MGE             Management Engineering
     MIS             Management Information Systems
     MA              Mathematical Sciences
     ME/MechE        Mechanical Engineering
     PH              Physics
     PW              Professional Writing
     Psych           Psychology
     RBE             Robotics Engineering
     STP             Society, Technology & Policy




              “WPI students love to create schedules, but
          unscheduled time is also where you’ll make lasting
           memories. Don’t be afraid to be spontaneous and
            leave some free time to do something fun with
          your friends or roommates, and always commit to
           one less thing than you think you can commit to.
                     You’ll thank yourself later.
                                                     ”
                              Isabelle Mellor ’22




36    [ back to contents ]
                                                               2023-24



Places to Study
Want a different place to study besides your room? Here are some
suggestions:
• George C. Gordon Library
  When you think of studying, this is probably the first place that
  comes to mind. The Library is a great place to study alone, work
  on a group project, or find information. There are four floors in
  the Library. The floor you enter is the second floor. There are
  computers and tables on this floor—great for group projects. The
  next floor down is the quiet floor. If you like studying alone and
  in silence, this is a great place for you. Study nooks are located
  by the windows and there are nice, secluded spots between the
  bookshelves. The bottom floor of the Library is good if you like a
  more relaxed study environment. There are plenty of big tables to
  spread out your work in addition to more computers. The top floor
  of the Library is another relaxed study environment. It has a mix
  of tables, whiteboards, and individual study nooks, in addition to
  sofas and chairs.
• Library Tech Suites
  A tech suite makes an excellent place to get work done either in a
  group or alone. You can book a tech suite by:
  - Going to the Tech Suite Reservation Station at the end of the
    Information Desk on the main floor of the Gordon Library to
    reserve a time or to get an express tech suite.
  - Calling the Tech Suite Hotline at 508-831-5094 to request a
    reservation.
  - Going on the Gordon Library website:
    ° Choose “Reserve a Tech Suite”
    ° Select the desired time(s) and tech suite(s)

                                                     [ back to contents ]   37
     G ompe i ’s Gui d e to WPI


         ° Click “Select Time”
         ° An email confirmation will be sent to you
       - Tech suites can be booked up to two weeks in advance. Visit the
         Library website for more information.
     • Rubin Campus Center
       This is also a great place to study. On the main and bottom
       floors there are plenty of tables to sit at with friends to work on
       homework. The top floor of the Campus Center has clusters of sofas
       and chairs, making a nice quiet place to get some reading done.
     • An Empty Classroom
       Empty classrooms make great places to sit down alone and get
       your work done. You can also turn on the projector and use it to
       play some white noise or study music to help you focus. Check
       25Live (easiest to locate on the Library website) to see which
       classrooms are available at a certain time.
     • Higgins House Garden
       This is a relaxing place to study in A- and D-Terms when the
       weather is nice. Set up a blanket and enjoy the nice weather while
       getting work done. There are also places to sit by the reflecting
       pool or you could choose to read on the swings.
     • Atwater Kent
       The “Pumpkin Lounge” on the first floor is a great place to study
       with others, and everyone there is willing to help you if you need it.
       The second floor of this building has tables and chairs set up by the
       windows that overlook Institute Park. Enjoy the view while you work.
     • Boynton Hill
       With a slight view of the Worcester skyline in the distance, there are
       a few benches overlooking the hill where you can sit as you absorb
       your surroundings.


38    [ back to contents ]
                                                                2023-24


• WPI Innovation Studio
  WPI Innovation Studio is a great location for
  collaborative group studying due to its open floor
  plan. Don’t be afraid to take advantage of its vast
  number of whiteboards when solving difficult
  problems. You can book an Innovation Studio tech
  suite by clicking or scanning the QR code to the right. You can
  book 2 slots per week (2 hours).
• Major-Specific Lounges
  Not all majors have these, but many do—check the main floor of
  the building where your department is located. These are great
  for getting work done and often there will be TAs or upperclass
  students nearby who you can ask for help.
• South Village Student Center
  The SVSC is a place with tables for studying and tech
  suites for collaboration. Book one on the SVSC website.
• Unity Hall
  In WPI’s newest building on campus, there are many tables,
  collaborative spaces, and seating is available on its five floors to
  study, do homework, and work on projects.
• OASIS Multicultural Center (OASIS House)
  Located at 20 Schussler Road, the OASIS House has a lounge
  on the main floor with couches, chairs, and a conference table
  where students can study during operating hours. There is also a
  conference room on the second floor with a whiteboard, display
  monitor, and conference table that seats up to 10 people to
  accommodate study groups.




                                                      [ back to contents ]   39
     G ompe i ’s Gui d e to WPI


     • Collegiate Religious Center (CRC)
       The CRC, located at 19 Schussler Road, has a lounge on the main
       level when you walk into the building; there are couches, chairs,
       and a conference table where students can study during operating
       hours. The CRC is typically quieter than most places on campus
       due to the sacred nature of the house. There is also a conference
       room on the second floor with a white board, display monitor, and
       conference table that seats up to 10 people.
     • International House
       The International House, located at 28 Trowbridge Road, has
       lounge space on the lower level where students can study or
       gather during operating hours.

     Academic Integrity
     Academic integrity speaks directly to student honesty,
     responsibility, and respect for scholarship. Academic
     assignments and tests help students learn course
     content, while grades show how fully this goal is
     achieved. Coursework and associated grades should be
     the result of the student’s own understanding of academic content, as
     well as demonstrated effort and achievement. To ensure your actions
     align with these expectations, review the WPI Academic Honesty Policy
     by clicking or scanning the QR code to the right.

     Taking a Leave of Absence
     Sometimes a student decides it’s wise to take a break
     from WPI, whether that be for a medical, personal, or
     financial reason. It is ok to take a leave if you need it. You
     can learn more about the process by clicking or scanning
     the QR code to the right, or talk to your academic advisor
     or the Dean of Students Office.

40    [ back to contents ]
                                                                2023-24



Project-Based Learning
Project-based learning is what we’re all about at
WPI. Learning to work in teams to solve challenging
global problems is one of the hallmarks of the WPI
education. You’ll do group projects in labs, in classes,
and as part of your IQP and MQP.
At WPI, we know that the best way for students to understand and
appreciate societal issues is to experience them firsthand. One of the
ways this happens is through the Global Projects Program.

eProjects
You can learn everything about almost all projects at
eprojects.wpi.edu or by clicking or scanning the QR
code to the right.

Interactive Qualifying Project (IQP)
The IQP is an interdisciplinary project that every student completes
in order to graduate. Some students do an IQP on campus by
reaching out to a faculty member and working with them to design a
project of interest. Other students do their IQPs at one of more than
50 project centers around the globe.

Remember the IQP is a RESEARCH project. If you’re doing
implementation, you might be doing it wrong and will have nothing
to write a compelling research paper with at the end.

Let yourself LEARN from the EXPERIENCE! It is supposed to be
interdisciplinary and out of your major.



                                                      [ back to contents ]   41
     G ompe i ’s Gui d e to WPI


     Make an effort to work with other people who don’t have the same
     background as you and you will learn so much.

     Tips for selecting and preparing IQP
     • You will apply for your IQP in your sophomore year and complete
       IQP generally in the junior year.
     • When you apply, you’ll be asked to list any project center that
       you’re open to considering.
     • What if you have your heart set on a specific location? Try not to
       limit your options. The more options you list on your application,
       the higher your chance of getting a placement.
     • Talk to the Global Experience Office staff (located in The Leshin
       Project Center) to accommodate specific needs for project placement
       (food allergies, medical concerns, etc.). They are happy to help.
     • Placements are generally shared the winter of your sophomore year.
     ID 2050: Every student who completes an IQP off campus will take
     ID 2050 the term before they go away to prepare for their time on
     IQP. Students will also often be taking PQP (pre-qualifying project, 1.5
     credits) the same term. This can be a heavy workload term, so you’ll
     want to plan ahead. To really do well in ID2050, here are some tips
     from fellow students:
     • Designate a project manager and start using a tool
       like Notion.so (click or scan QR code to right) or a
       similar platform to keep everything in the same place
       and on time.
     • Set up weekly meetings with your ID2050 team, where you all
       can get closer and really get to know each other before IQP. This
       helps get everyone on the same page for the project you’ll be
       researching for a whole semester.

42    [ back to contents ]
                                                              2023-24



Major Qualifying Project (MQP)
• Completing Your Project Globally: There are also
  some opportunities to complete your MQP at a global
  project site. You can click or scan the QR code to the
  right to see the different sites. If you’re interested,
  email the project advisors (professors) to learn more. They are very
  passionate about the projects at the project centers.
• If you’re interested in an MQP on campus, the process may vary
  by department. The best thing to do is to ask your faculty advisor for
  more information on the process in your department. If you’re having
  trouble finding a project, your faculty advisor is your best contact.

Humanities and Arts (HUA)
You can also complete your Humanities and Arts (HUA)
experience abroad in places like England, Germany, and
Morocco. Often, you’ll complete a few HUA courses here
on campus and then finish your project, including your
HUA capstone on location at an HUA global project site. Learn more by
clicking or scanning the QR code to the right.

SWEET Center
Teamwork is a critical part of the WPI experience and we’re invested
in making sure you have a great team experience at WPI. The SWEET
Center stands for Supporting WPI through Effective and Equitable
Teamwork. The goal of the Center is to ensure every WPI student has
at least one highly effective and equitable team experience before
they graduate, and that they leave with skills and tools to increase
their own ability to collaborate effectively in teams throughout
their careers. The Center provides support and consultation for
teamwork happening on campus. Faculty can refer student teams for
a consultation, or teams and individuals can seek assistance on their
own either through appointments or weekly drop-in hours.
                                                    [ back to contents ]   43
     G ompe i ’s Gui d e to WPI


     A Few Tips for Effective Teaming
     • Set clear expectations with teammates right from the outset.
       This includes when it’s OK to contact each other and setting
       expectations for the amount of effort that will be put into the
       project by each member of the team.
     • Consider creating an asset map to figure out good group roles for
       each team member.
     • Remember, not everyone has to have the same skills or
       expectations to be a good teammate. Make sure to value your
       teammates for the kind of skills they can bring to the team.
     • Not every team will always be functioning at 100%. That’s OK. The
       key is to talk about it with your teammates and then course correct
       with the team.
     • If things aren’t going well, it is critical you communicate. Make sure
       to debrief with your team afterwards and talk things out. If there is
       conflict, address it early on as a group; the SWEET Center is a great
       resource for mediation.
     • Remember the acronym: DWYSYWD. Do what you say you will
       do. Make sure to do what you agree to do and set the same
       expectations for team members.



         “It isGoantoamazing
                      office hours. Actually put it in your schedule.
                               way to connect with your professors.
        Even if you aren’t struggling immensely go talk to your
           professor and I’m sure you’ll learn something!
                                                                   ”
                                Tori Cormier ’25


44    [ back to contents ]
                                                              2023-24



Meeting People, Getting Involved,
and Having Fun
College isn’t just about hitting the books. Research
suggests that students who are involved on campus are
less stressed, have more fun, feel more connected to campus, and do
better academically. What better reasons to get involved?

Meeting New People
We know making friends can sometimes be scary—remember every
other student is in the same boat as you. They are all trying to meet
friends and make connections and want you to like them, just like
you want them to like you. To meet new people, here are some
suggestions:
• Introduce yourself to the people sitting around you in class,
  meetings, in the dining hall, and at events.
• Join a pick-up basketball game or exercise class and talk with
  fellow attendees.
• Not sure what to say? Everyone loves to talk about themselves.
  Try to ask open-ended questions, which are questions that require
  more than a yes or no answer. Brainstorm some questions you
  could ask someone in advance. Ideas might be What did you do this
  summer? What’s your favorite class? What are you majoring in? How
  did you choose your major? Ask a floor mate or two to go to dinner
  with you—everyone eats.
• Keep your room door open for others to stop by and say hi or pop
  your head into a room with the door open and say hello yourself.



                                                    [ back to contents ]   45
     G ompe i ’s Gui d e to WPI


     • Set up a board game or video game console in the lounge and ask
       if folks want to play with you. You can do the same with a frisbee or
       other games for the Quad as well (you can rent lawn games from
       the Rubin Campus Center Info Desk).
     • Grab a pizza or some cookies and walk around your floor asking
       folks if they want some. Food can be a great way to break the ice.
     • Attend club events/meetings and talk to the folks sitting next to you.
     • Volunteer to join a committee in a club or help with planning.
       A great way to form connections is to work on something with
       a group.
     • If you’re struggling to get connected, seek out your RA or CA; they
       can be a big help.

     MyWπ Is Where It’s At
     To get involved, check out the portal for all things clubs
     and organizations. It’s called MyWπ. Find a few clubs
     and email their club leaders. Go to their meetings, sign
     up for their emails, attend events, and have fun! Click or
     scan the QR code on the right to learn more.

     Activities Fairs
     WPI hosts Activities Fairs where you can learn about different
     organizations. There is usually tons of free stuff and you’ll have a
     chance to learn more about all the clubs on campus.




46    [ back to contents ]
                                                              2023-24



Things to Do
Check out the 100+ things to do on and around campus
by clicking or scanning the QR code to the right. Here are
10 suggestions for on-campus fun:
1.   L ook for campus events on the events calendar on
      MyWπ —there’s always a ton happening.
2.   Cheer on one of WPI’s athletic teams.
3.   Attend Tuesday night trivia, offered every week.
4.   Check out a SocComm film on Saturday or Sunday nights.
5.   Play tabletop games with the Science Fiction Society on Fridays.
6.   E very Saturday, the Video Game Association puts on a Smash
      Bros. tournament. Fun fact, you can also check out a gaming
      console at the Info Desks at the Rubin Campus Center and South
      Village Student Center to play with friends.
7.    lay cornhole or ladder ball on the Quad. You can check out a set
     P
     at the RCC Info Desk.
8.   Explore Higgins House Gardens.
9.    eserve the grill behind the Rubin Campus Center and make
     R
     s’mores with friends.
10. Set up a slack line or hammock and enjoy the weather.




                                                    [ back to contents ]   47
     G ompe i ’s Gui d e to WPI


     Be In the Know About Campus Happenings
     There’s a ton happening on campus almost every day. So how do you
     keep up with what’s going on? Here are a few tips:
     1.    heck MyWπ by clicking or scanning the QR code to
          C
          the right.
     2.   L ook on 25 Live: If you’re curious what’s happening
           in a space on campus click or scan the QR code to
           the right.
     3.   L ook on the WPI Athletics website by clicking or
           scanning the QR code to the right.
     4.    heck your email, where you’ll see weekly updates
          C
          about major campus events.
     5.   S top by the tables in the Rubin Campus Center to
           see what other clubs are up to.
     6.   F ollow clubs that interest you on social media for their events.
           You don’t have to be a member of the club to go to their
           events. Also, follow the Student Activities Office and Student
           Government Association on social media, too—they repost
           many events.
     7.   Check your Slack/group chats to see what folks are talking about.
     8.   T he WPI Reddit tends to have a lot of information about
           current events.




48     [ back to contents ]
                                                              2023-24



      Top 10 Instagram pages to follow:

1     @WPI                           6     @WPIResServices
2     @WPI_SAO                       7     @WPI_ODIME
3     @WPI_SGA                       8     @TechEatsWPI
4     @Soccomm                       9     @WPIGlobal
5     @WPIAcademicAdvising           10    @SASWPI


SAO Trips
Student Activities offers trips almost every weekend
of the academic year to places like escape rooms, Six
Flags, corn mazes, apple picking, and more. Check out
MyWπ, and the SAO social media channels for more
information. Tickets for the trips can be purchased by clicking or
scanning the QR code to the right.

SAO Late Night Programming Series
There are fun and free activities for students on campus every
Tuesday, Friday, and Saturday night. The SAO Late Night
Programming Series is a great way to have fun with friends and relax.
Programs may include food trucks, crafts, games, novelties, and so
much more. Keep an eye out for advertisements and information on
MyWπ.

Clubs and Organizations
• Clubs can become a great support system during your time as a
  student at WPI as they are a great way to make friends and have
  fun. There are over 235 clubs and organizations at WPI, meaning it’s
  highly likely there is something that interests you.

                                                    [ back to contents ]   49
     G ompe i ’s Gui d e to WPI


     • Remember, most clubs allow members to join throughout the
       whole year. It’s never too late to get involved. No club is going to
       turn away new members and, while it may be a little awkward in
       the beginning, most clubs will welcome you with open arms and
       get to know you.
     • Almost every club event is free or has a low cost to attend, so it’s a
       great way to meet more people and experience new things.
     • You don’t have to be involved in 10+ clubs. You can choose some
       that you like and find important to you.
     • If you are interested in a club WPI does not have, you can start
       your own.
     • Check out table sitting in the Rubin Campus Center. A lot of clubs
       will sell things to fundraise (mostly food, but also stickers, plants,
       etc.). This is another great way to make connections with other
       people and learn about what is happening on campus.
     • If you don’t love a club, it’s OK to spend your time in another
       way. Get involved in intramurals, community service, tutoring, or
       mentoring. Involvement can look different for everyone.

     Varsity Athletic Events
     Odds are you know a varsity athlete or two. Make
     sure to cheer on your classmates and friends at their
     sporting events. Check the board in the Rec Center
     or the Athletics website by clicking or scanning the
     QR code to the right for the weekly schedule. Show
     your WPI pride, grab some friends and go watch the game.




50    [ back to contents ]
                                                               2023-24



Leadership Programs
Want to grow your leadership skills? There are a number of ways to do
this, both formally and informally. Student Activities offers a number
of leadership training courses and Leadership Lectures for emerging,
advanced, and transformational leaders. You can also run for a leadership
role in a club or consider joining the Student Government Association.

Community Service
WPI students do thousands of hours of community
service annually. You can help serve the Worcester
community while also gaining valuable skills. To learn
more, join the community service Slack channel by
clicking or scanning the QR code to the right.
Here are a few suggestions from your peers about how to get
involved in service work:
• Clubs like Green Team, Engineers Without Borders, and Habitat
  for Humanity give you opportunities to volunteer and make the
  community a better place.
• Service fraternities, like Alpha Phi Omega, are a great resource to
  learn about opportunities, even if you do not wish to join.




       “for There is definitely a club or activity out there
            you! Sometimes you can feel pretty homesick
        if you’re really far away from home and having a
                  little bit of home here helps.
                                                    ”
                          Vrandol Perez ’23



                                                     [ back to contents ]   51
     G ompe i ’s Gui d e to WPI


     • Promotion of Animal Welfare Society (PAWS) volunteers at animal
       shelters.
     • Work on Worcester is a service event hosted in the fall and is open
       to students who want to help out.
     • Soup kitchens/food pantries around Worcester are always looking
       for volunteers.

     Open Recreation, Intramurals & Club Sports
     WPI’s Sports and Recreation Center (SPARC), which is supported by the
     Department of Physical Education, Recreation, and Athletics offers a
     myriad of recreational activities, club sports, and intramural events.
     • You can find out all about club sports on MyWπ.
     • Info on intramurals, which are fun team-based sports for all
       students, is usually emailed to students and changes from term
       to term—keep your eyes open for the email as the slots fill up
       fast. They are low stress and a lot less competitive so you can just
       have fun with friends.
     • The SPARC has exercise classes, workout equipment, a running
       track, basketball courts, a pool, and more. Here are some tips
       from your fellow students about what they love:
       - The gym on the third and fourth floors of the Rec
         Center is open daily during the week. Hours are
         posted on the SPARC website and can be found at
         the QR code to the right.
       - The pool is open for lap swimming at various times throughout
         the day.
       - Using the indoor track at the gym is very nice if it’s cold out and
         you dislike treadmills.

52    [ back to contents ]
                                                                2023-24



  - Squash courts are a fun form of exercise with friends.
  - There are often student-led Zumba or strength classes that
    anyone can join with no time commitment.
• You can ask at the front desk for balls/nets/courts, and they will help
  you get set up as long as the area you need isn’t already being used.
• Are you a newbie to working out? There are some really fun
  physical education/wellness classes, and some that can teach you
  how to use the equipment.

Looking for other recreational activities?
• There are tennis courts in Institute Park.
• Students often play with frisbees/other lawn games on the Quad.
• Central Rock Gym is just a short drive from campus; memberships
  are affordable. The Outing Club makes weekly trips there.
• There are tons of rail trails and hiking options just a short drive
  from campus. Check out the Holden Rail Trails, the Blackstone
  Valley Trails, or the Cascades.

Innovation and Entrepreneurship
WPI’s Innovation & Entrepreneurship Center supports the culture
of entrepreneurial and innovative thinking through skill-based
workshops, seed funding, mentorship, innovation challenges,
networking opportunities, hands-on projects, and more. Whether
it’s a student IQP, MQP, ISP, graduate research, a hobby project, a
venture, or nonprofit idea, the Center is here to help support the
development of your idea and turn it into reality for the greater good
of our local and global communities.



                                                      [ back to contents ]   53
     G ompe i ’s Gui d e to WPI


     So You’ve Got an Invention? WPI can help you patent
     and think about the commercialization of your idea or
     invention, even without faculty or outside funding. To
     learn more, click or scan the QR code to the right.
     Check out all the events and workshops offered by I&E
     by clicking or scanning the QR code to the right.
     • WPI has two innovation and entrepreneurship
       themed clubs: Enactus and Launch Pad.
     • There is some great study space in I&E Center.
     • You can use machines like the laser cutters, 3D
       printers, and general hand tools in the Makerspace.
       Look on the Makerspace page to find training and
       workshops by clicking or scanning the QR code to the
       right. It’s super easy to get certified to use the tools
       and cool to have free access to expensive equipment
       you probably don’t have at home.
     • Reserve a table in the I&E Center in the Innovation
       Studio for group projects on their website or by
       clicking or scanning the QR code to the right.

     Campus Traditions
     WPI has a ton of campus traditions. From Homecoming to rivalry events
     like the Rope Pull to expectations that you never step on the Quad seal,
     WPI has a rich history. You can learn all about it by reading the Tech Bible
     you received at Bridge Crossing during New Student Orientation.




54    [ back to contents ]
                                                             2023-24



Living On and Around Campus
Whether you live on or off campus during your time
at WPI, it’s important you have a safe, comfortable
place to live and learn.

Living on Campus
We want you to feel right at home in one of WPI’s many residential
communities. You’ll be close to campus facilities, activities, and
services, where you’ll hopefully learn, grow, make lifelong friends,
and prepare for your future. Your Resident Advisor (RA), a returning
student who lives on your floor, will be there to answer any questions
you have about WPI and help with your room or roommate issues.
Make sure to keep your door open as much as possible and attend
hall programs and events—it’s a great way to get to know others in
your building.
• Community Director (Residential Services Office, East Hall,
  508-831-5645): If you live on campus, your Community Director
  (CD) is the professional staff person who supervises your RA. They
  can help you with roommate conflicts, questions about getting
  connected on campus, or questions about housing.
• Dealing with Roommates: For many WPI students, this is the first
  time they are living in a room with someone else and that can
  be an adjustment. One of the things your RA will encourage you
  to do is to create a roommate agreement, where you’ll set some
  expectations for the room. Think about things like when you study,
  how clean or messy things are, what to do when you want to have
  a guest, and how you’ll communicate if something isn’t going well.
  Revisit this agreement often and make changes as needed; your
  room is a space for all who live there, so respect one another.


                                                   [ back to contents ]   55
     G ompe i ’s Gui d e to WPI


     • Something Broken in Your Room? Your RA can help you with a
       work order.
     • Locked Out? If it’s Monday through Friday during 8:00 a.m. and
       5:00 p.m., go to East Hall and a staff member can assist you. If it’s
       outside these hours, call Campus Police at 508-831-5555. Each
       after-hours lockout is $15 for residential students.
     • Become an RA: The Resident Advisor role is a great way to give
       back to the WPI community and earn important career skills.
       Applications come out mid year, so keep your eyes open.
     • Break and Summer Housing: Residence halls are open during
       term breaks, except for the break in December (except for specific
       circumstances), and summer with separate overnight fees. Some
       off-campus apartments allow subletting as well. Check your
       networks, Facebook, Reddit, and other social media locations to
       find out who might be looking for a subletter.
     • Housing Selection takes place between January and March each
       year for the following academic year.
     • Gender-Inclusive Housing. There are a number
       of gender-inclusive housing options. Click or scan the
       QR code to the right to learn more or email
       res-services@wpi.edu.
     • Accessibility Related Housing Accommodations.
       Housing-based accommodations are available to
       students with a documented need. The Office of
       Accessibility Services can assist you. Click or scan the
       QR code to the right.




56    [ back to contents ]
                                                             2023-24



Dining on Campus
There are many places to dine across the campus, ranging from
Morgan Dining to the new Halal Shack, to the Goat’s Head, to
the South Village Student Center, and more. Whether you want
something hot off the grill, fresh vegetables at the salad bars, a
smoothie, or sushi, there is something to suit everyone’s needs. To
keep things fresh and interesting, try to dine at different locations
across the campus regularly and, as always, if you need anything, ask
a dining associate.
• Using Your Meal Plan
  There are a number of meal plan options to choose
  from. Click or scan the QR code on the right to learn
  more about them. Each meal plan works a little
  differently depending on where you live. In general,
  you can use one swipe of your ID per meal. Talk to your
  RA or look on the Dine on Campus website to get the scoop. You can
  change your meal plan up to two weeks into A-Term and C-Term, so
  if you decide you need more or fewer meals, make sure not to miss
  this timeframe.
• Bonus Points and Goatbucks
  Bonus points are associated with each meal plan which have a
  one point to one dollar conversion. You can upload funds into
  Goatbucks using the GET app. This saves money on campus dining
  purchases because you receive 10% off. This is very convenient for
  the Campus Center Food Court, Dunkin’ Donuts, the Bookstore, and
  more. You can use your Goatbucks and Bonus Points at some area
  restaurants, too. Check out the off-campus section of this guide for
  more details.




                                                   [ back to contents ]   57
     G ompe i ’s Gui d e to WPI


     • Voluntary Meal Plans
       If you’re an upper level student who lives in a place that doesn’t
       require a meal plan or lives off campus, consider opting for the
       Gompei 190 meal plan. This plan rolls over from year-to-year and
       you can use it anywhere on campus.
     • Eating Healthy
       WPI offers a range of healthy options, allergen-free options, vegan,
       and vegetarian options. Shavaun Cloran is a registered dietitian
       on campus who you can work with if you have any food allergies,
       restrictions, or dietary needs. Contact her at scloran@wpi.edu.

     Fraternity and Sorority Housing
     Living in fraternity or sorority housing can be a great transition
     from residence hall life to fully off-campus. If you are thinking about
     joining a fraternity or sorority, you may want to wait until after rush/
     recruitment to find housing, as almost all fraternities and sororities
     have houses. Most fraternities and sororities also have meal plans
     and/or a chef who cooks for the house.




            “  SELF ADVOCACY IS KEY! Reach out to your
            resources and build a support team and network.
             Building meaningful connections with friends,
             school offices, professors, and employers leads
            to opportunity, success, guidance, collaboration,
                         ideas, and belonging!
                                                     ”
                                Trevor Bush ’25




58    [ back to contents ]
                                                                 2023-24



Off-Campus Apartments
If living off campus is your desire, many students start searching for their
next year’s housing in October/November. There are houses ranging
in price and number of bedrooms. While it may at times be affordable
to live off campus, you’ll also need to plan to provide furnishings for
your apartment and budget for expenses like cable, internet, electric,
gas, and water. Make sure you’re ready to take on the responsibility of
paying those bills and working with a landlord or property manager.
Older students can be a great resource for finding off-campus housing.
They may be moving out or looking for another roommate, which makes
things easier. Also, many leases are passed down through friends, so
talk to upperclass students in your clubs or your classes to get some
feedback about different housing opportunities off campus. While
WPI does not endorse any specific housing search tool, many students
indicate they use these:
• Homeless WPI Students Facebook Group (no, they aren’t
  really homeless) to help with roommate searches. Click
  or scan the QR code to the right to learn more.
• Students also report using JumpOffCampus as a
  resource to find available housing around campus.
  Click or scan the QR code to the right to learn more.




      “Reach out to “scary” people. The administrators,
   professors, and employees want to help you succeed—
   and may even need your help to reach their goals! They
    might not know they need you until you reach out.
                                                                    ”
                            Sam Levitan ’24



                                                       [ back to contents ]    59
     G ompe i ’s Gui d e to WPI


     Tips from Students on Leases and Landlords/
     Property Managers
     • Be prepared for apartments to get taken very quickly. You often
       need to commit within a day or so, or someone else will take it.
       Be prepared to sign on the spot or have the money to put down a
       deposit.
     • While many apartments do get taken early, there are still options
       available in the spring semester so you will not be left without
       housing.
     • You can ask around for advice on various landlords and property
       managers in the area.
     • Some leases require a co-signer, some do not.
     • Some leases include various utilities such as heat/hot water, gas,
       etc., or you might need to pay separately.
     • Make sure you really know your roommates before you jump into a
       lease. If you aren’t sure about them, on-campus housing selection
       starts much later, and it gives you more time to get to know people
       before you commit to living with them.
     • Don’t be afraid to not renew leases/change up roommates; many
       people get comfortable in the place they are staying and settle,
       even if it is not what they want. People can also be afraid of leaving
       their roommates even when they’re not happy, but don’t be afraid
       to do what’s best for you.




60    [ back to contents ]
                                                               2023-24



Be Well Together:
Wellness Resources on Campus
WPI is a community of caring students, faculty, and
staff who are here to support each other. There are
many resources to help you be balanced and well here on campus.

Student Health Services (Daniels Hall)
Student Health Services (SHS) provides free, accessible,
comprehensive, quality healthcare (including referral services) for all
undergraduate WPI students and graduate students who have paid
the health fee. They offer evaluation and treatment of acute illnesses
and injuries, management of chronic health conditions, sexual
health services and sports medicine as well as organizing annual
immunization clinics. You can make an appointment by calling 508-
831-5520. If you need urgent after-hours health care, you can call
508-334-8830 and identify yourself as a WPI student; the provider on
call will return your call as soon as possible.

Center for Well-Being (Morgan Hall Wedge)
The Center for Well-Being applies evidence-based
practices to promote well-being for students and the
broader WPI campus community, recognizing the
importance of faculty and staff in creating, maintaining,
and modeling a healthier environment for all. They offer
loads of wellness programming—check out the website by clicking
or scanning the QR code to the right for more information.




                                                     [ back to contents ]   61
     G ompe i ’s Gui d e to WPI


     Student Development and Counseling Center (SDCC)
     The SDCC offers free and confidential individual counseling sessions
     and group counseling sessions. They also offer programming in areas
     like mindfulness, stress management, sleep, and more in partnership
     with the Center for Well-Being. The first appointment is generally 25
     minutes, and after that, future appointment frequency and length are
     determined based on your ongoing needs and counselor availability.
     There are three ways to make an appointment:
     • Online by clicking or scanning the QR code
       to the right
     • By phone (508-831-5540)
     • Or stop by the SDCC (16 Einhorn Road)
     The SDCC staff can also connect you with local organizations and
     other local counselors if you have more specialized needs or would
     prefer to work with an outside provider.
     If you need after-hours mental health support, call 508-831-5540. You
     will be able to speak with a crisis counselor through choices available
     in the answering message menu. As always, if you are experiencing a
     mental health emergency, call 911 or WPI Police at 508-831-5555.

     Support Groups
     More than a dozen support groups are offered by the SDCC to help
     students learn new skills or knowledge in a particular area related to
     their mental health and well-being. A list of groups can be found on
     the SDCC website.




62    [ back to contents ]
                                                             2023-24



Student Support Network (SSN)
The SSN program helps you become a better listener or helper for
your peers, with knowledge, skills, destigmatizing perspectives, and
connection capabilities. SSN runs in B, C, and D terms for students
with a six-week training commitment (one hour per week).

Active Minds
Active Minds is a student-run organization designed to help
destigmatize mental health issues and provide support to students
through programs, events, and discussions.

Recognizing and Responding to Students in
Distress (RRSD)
This 60- to 90-minute seminar offered to students, staff, and faculty
throughout the year provides tools to recognize warning signs that a
student may be struggling and identify appropriate steps for reaching
out and connecting the student with the support they may need.




   “They
     Friends are your biggest asset when it comes to WPI.
         make your experience a lot more enjoyable and
     are also really helpful academically if you are taking
    the same class. It’s really helpful to study together and
     usually easier to ask your classmates for help rather
      than the professor. Don’t go through WPI alone!
                                                               ”
                           RJ Franzen ’24




                                                   [ back to contents ]   63
     G ompe i ’s Gui d e to WPI


     Wellness Days
     WPI has added Wellness Days into the academic calendar. These are
     an opportunity to rest, recharge, and practice self-care. Use them to
     take the time you need to feel whole and balanced.

     WellTrack App
     The WellTrack app provides some great wellness-related activities,
     mood tracking, and more. Download it from your app store and
     check out some of the courses offered.

     WPI Care Team
     The WPI Care Team was established to receive, discuss,
     and—when appropriate—act upon information or
     behaviors of concern exhibited by a student or group of
     students. If you are worried about your friend or a fellow
     peer, fill out the I’m Concerned About A Student form
     and a member of the CARE Team will get in contact with you and
     your friend. Click or scan the QR code to the right.

     Tips on Wellness from Students
     Everyone’s path to wellness looks a little different and that’s OK. The
     key is to do things to help support your overall well-being. You aren’t
     just a student, and no one expects you to spend 100% of your time
     on academics. It’s important to be attuned to all your other needs as
     well. Here are some tips from fellow students:
     • Take time to explore and participate in activities you enjoy.
     • Find a healthy stress reliever: it could be drawing, working out,
       playing a game, listening to music, or just taking a reflective walk.



64    [ back to contents ]
                                                                 2023-24



• Do not be afraid to ask for help when you need it. Those who are
  most successful at WPI know to ask for help.
• It can be hard at first, but try to find a balance between academics,
  extracurriculars, and social life.
• Get some exercise. Whether that’s working out at the SPARC,
  joining a fitness class, or just taking a walk, movement is an
  important part of wellness.
• Make sure you’re stopping to eat, drink water, shower, and take
  care of basic needs (i.e., brushing your teeth). You truly aren’t too
  busy to take care of yourself. If you feel like you are, perhaps it’s a
  chance to take a step back and reflect.
• Breaks are a necessity; when you feel burnt out it’s more beneficial
  to take a step back than to keep pushing through.
• Get sleep. There is solid research that shows you don’t learn well if
  you aren’t sleeping consistently.
• You don’t need to get an A in everything. You will get a job after
  WPI whether you get As, Bs, or Cs. Sometimes it’s better to take
  care of yourself than sacrifice your wellness for the A.




                   “We’re
                     Don’t be shy to ask for help.
                          all in this together.
                                                ”
                          Shivaani Gopal ’24




                                                       [ back to contents ]   65
     G ompe i ’s Gui d e to WPI



     WPI’s Diversity Is Our Strength
     Office of Accessibility Services (Unity Hall)
     The Office of Accessibility Services coordinates
     accommodation services. It also advocates and supports
     students with documented physical, learning, sensory, psychological,
     developmental, and temporary disabilities.

     OASIS House
     Located at 20 Schussler Road, the OASIS (Offering Acceptance,
     Support, and Inclusion to Students) House is a place where students
     can relax, socialize, study, or host gatherings. Here, students can use
     the conference room or lounge to study, hold a club meeting, host
     a game night, or use the indoor and outdoor spaces to host cultural
     and diversity events. There is also a full kitchen for students and
     student groups to prepare cultural meals or simply grab a bite to eat.

     Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Multicultural
     Education (ODIME), 20 Schussler Road
     Found in the OASIS Multicultural Center (OASIS House), you will find
     space for events, relaxation, studying, as well as the ODIME staff
     offices. This is a location where students can get help navigating their
     university experience. The ODIME staff provides support, resources,
     tools, and direction to all WPI students navigating identity, diversity,
     multicultural education, and social justice.

     Collegiate Religious Center (CRC), 19 Schussler Road
     The CRC provides services and resources for students, faculty, staff,
     alumni, community members, and guests for the purpose of religion,
     faith, devotions, worship, prayer, and more. The CRC features a
66    [ back to contents ]
                                                              2023-24



prayer room, multifaith workshop space, a conference room, Campus
Chaplain workspaces, and an outdoor event space. WPI members
from all faiths or no faith are welcome to use the CRC, engage with
the Campus Chaplains, or talk to an ODIME staff member. There
is also a full religiously sensitive kitchen for students and student
groups to prepare meals or simply grab a bite to eat.

Office of International Student Life (ISL),
28 Trowbridge Road
Located in International House, ISL provides international students
with support, education, and assistance with I-20 forms, OPT
applications, tax preparation, and help with adjusting to United
States culture. The ISL works closely with the International Student
Council to support international students on campus.

Check Out the Student Success Handbook
This resource focuses on the unique challenges diverse
students encounter during their first and second years
at WPI. It provides a wealth of valuable resources to
assist you in effectively adapting to the university
environment. The handbook places a strong emphasis on strategies
that promote overall student success for the diverse population of
students on campus. Click the QR code to access it.

Cultural, Multicultural, Religious, and Identity
Supportive Clubs
There are 24+ affinity student organizations who help support and
create community for BIPOC, ALANA, LGBTQIAP+, first-generation,
international students, and other diverse students on campus and
8+ affinity student organizations who support students with diverse
religious backgrounds. A full listing of the clubs/organizations is
available on MyWπ.
                                                    [ back to contents ]   67
     G ompe i ’s Gui d e to WPI


     Center for Black Excellence, Rubin Campus Center
     The Center for Black Excellence provides a space which redefines
     Black excellence, to honor, celebrate, and engage across the
     diverse intersections of the Black diaspora. In this space individuals
     experience empowerment, unity, and community while fostering the
     collective need to cultivate, inspire, affirm, and advance the needs of
     Black students at WPI.

     Lavender Lounge, Rubin Campus Center
     The Lavender Lounge provides a space and sense of community,
     empowerment, affirmation, and inclusion where diverse queer and trans
     people can thrive as their whole authentic selves. In this space individuals
     will experience a vibrant group, programs, services, and community
     connecting them with resources which support their success.

     Cultural Events
     Here are just a few of the many events you may see on campus
     throughout the year.
     • International Dinner, sponsored by the International Student
       Council (ISC)
     • BSU Fashion Show, sponsored by the Black Student Union (BSU)
     • NSBE National Convention, sponsored by the National Society of
       Black Engineers (NSBE)
     • Touch of Africa, sponsored by African Students Association (ASA)
     • Melanin Gala, sponsored by BSU, NSBE, and ASA
     • Diwali, sponsored by the South Asian Student Association (SASA)
     • Eid Dinner, sponsored by the Muslim Student Association (MSA)


68    [ back to contents ]
                                                               2023-24



• Catholic Sunday Mass,              • Chinese Spring Festival,
  sponsored by the Catholic            sponsored by the Chinese
  Newman Club                          Students and Scholars
                                       Association (CSSA)
• Pan Asian Festival, sponsored
  by several of the Asian heritage • Taste of Latin American,
  cultural clubs on campus           Caribbean, and Hispanic
                                     Student Association (CHSA)
• Latino Fiesta, sponsored by
  the Society of Hispanic          • Carnaval, sponsored by the
  Professional Engineers (SHPE)      Brazilian Student Association
                                     (BRASA)
• Pride Week, sponsored by
  The Alliance                     • Bagel Brunch, sponsored
                                     by Hillel
• Drag Show, sponsored by
  The Alliance                     • Shabbat dinners at Hillel House




  Club Highlight: The Alliance
  The Alliance is a student-run organization that
  hosts fun events and aims to create a community for
  LGBTQIAP+ students. The Alliance is also an oSTEM (Out
  in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics) affiliated
  chapter, which is a professional society specifically for LGBTQIAP+
  individuals. The organization plans several welcoming and
  educational activities throughout the year to build community
  among LGBTQIAP+ community members. Learn more about The
  Alliance, name change processes, as well as other LGBTQIAP+
  supports by clicking or scanning the QR code here.




                                                     [ back to contents ]   69
     G ompe i ’s Gui d e to WPI



     Exploring Worcester
     Worcester is the second largest city in New England
     and boasts a ton of offerings for the 30,000 college
     students who live and study in the city. Definitely get
     out and explore the community—there’s a ton to see
     and do.

     Getting Around the City
     • Worcester Regional Transit Authority
       This is the bus system in Worcester. You can check
       schedules, track buses, and learn more by clicking or
       scanning the QR code to the right.
     • Ride Shares
       Students also use resources like Uber and Lyft to get around the city.
     • Gompei’s Gears Bike Share
       WPI’s bikeshare program for students to rent a bike
       for up to 8 hours at a time using the Bloom app. For
       a map of bike racks and to join the program, click or
       scan the QR code to the right.
     • Zipcar
       WPI has Zipcars on campus. Zipcars make it easy to
       get around without breaking the bank. With many
       fuel-efficient and hybrid vehicles, these cars help
       students reduce their footprint on campus and
       get around town easily. Sign up here by clicking or
       scanning the QR code to the right.




70    [ back to contents ]
                                                             2023-24



• Traveling Beyond Worcester
  SNAP, within SNAP’s hours, goes to Union Station if
  you’re taking a train or bus to the airport. You also
  can take a shared van transport to the airport from
  Knight’s Service Boston Limo Service. Click or scan the
  QR code to the right for more information.

Things to Do
Worcester has so much to do. Here are a few places to explore:
• WooSox—Go to Polar Park and watch the WooSox baseball team
  hit it out of the park.
• Railers Game—Go to the DCU Center and see the Worcester
  Railers, our local ECHL professional hockey team. You can purchase
  home game tickets in the Student Activities Office.
• Worcester Art Museum—Take a short walk to the Worcester
  Art Museum (WAM) and see all the creative pieces they have on
  display. Show your WPI ID to get free admission.
• Ecotarium—This science museum features animals such as the red
  fox, barred owl, bald eagle, and porcupine. If you volunteer with
  them, you can explore the museum for free!
• New England Botanic Garden at Tower Hill—Explore its 18
  distinct gardens, preserved woodlands, and miles of walking trails.
• Worcester Public Market/Green Street—Visit the local shops and
  restaurants in the area.
• Shrewsbury Street—Sometimes called “Restaurant Row,” there are
  tons of restaurants on this street.
• Palladium—Visit the Palladium and see a concert or performance.


                                                   [ back to contents ]   71
     G ompe i ’s Gui d e to WPI


     • Worcester Historical Museum—Worcester is filled with rich
       history. Get a glimpse of it at this museum on Elm Street.
     • Lincoln Plaza—Shopping center with stores like Target, Old Navy
       Outlet, Michael’s, TJ Maxx, Stop & Shop, Lowe’s, and Planet Fitness.
     • Bancroft Tower—This park has a castle-type structure built to
       honor former Secretary of the Navy George Bancroft.
     • Union Station—This is where you go to catch a train to Boston,
       the Amtrak, or a bus to destinations outside of Worcester.
     • Elm Park—A great park just a few blocks from campus that has
       ponds, two very neat bridges, a walking path, and lots of cool
       public art.
     • Institute Park—A historic park adjacent to WPI’s main campus
       with a lake, a multipurpose field, tennis courts, two monuments,
       and a concert stage.
     • Thrifting—There’s a great Goodwill walking distance from campus
       and Savers is a short drive away.
     • Blackstone Valley Shopping Mall—Here you’ll find lots of
       restaurants, shops like LL Bean, Target, Best Buy, Marshalls, and
       Dick’s Sporting Goods, just to name a few, and a movie theatre.




                    “ Don’t be scared to talk/meet new
                  people. You’ll be shocked to find out how
                   approachable WPI students can be.
                                                         ”
                                Mason Vega ’22



72    [ back to contents ]
                                                             2023-24



Places to Eat Around Town
Want a snack? Or maybe you want to go out for dinner? Or want
something delivered? Here’s a list of some restaurants that might
tickle your fancy that are walking distance from campus.

Aladdin (Halal)                    Hot Table (Paninis)
Altea’s Eatery (French, brunch)    Island Fin Poke* (Poke)
Antonio’s Pizza (Pizza)            Jamaica Thymes (Jamaican)
Baba Sushi (Sushi)                 Loft 266 (Pub Fare)
Bagel Time                         Lucy’s Cake
(Bagels and Sandwiches)            (Desserts)
Bean Counter                       New England Roast Beef
(Coffee and Desserts)              (Sandwiches)
Blue Jeans                         Nu Kitchen
(Pizza)                            (Healthier Sandwiches, Bowls)
Boomers (Sandwiches, Pasta)        Oak Barrel Tavern* (Pub Food)
BT’s Fried Chicken (BBQ)           Salgabom Snacks (Brazilian)
Chipotle (Mexican)                 Sole Proprietor (Seafood)
Chuan Shabu (Hotpot)               Taqueria Del Pueblo (Mexican)
Dragon Dynasty (Chinese)           Tech Pizza (Pizza)
El Basha (Mediterranean)           Thai Time (Thai)
Fuel America (Coffee)              The Boynton* (Pub Fare)
Havana Nights (Cuban)              The Fix (Burger Bar)
Helfand’s Deli (Deli Sandwiches)   The Shack (Indian)

* accepts Goatbucks


                                                   [ back to contents ]   73
     G ompe i ’s Gui d e to WPI



     Safety On and Off Campus
     Now that you’re here on campus, it’s important
     to make sure you’re making smart decisions
     around safety.

     WPI Police
     WPI Police is located in the lower level of Founders Hall and is available
     24/7 to help you. In addition to providing immediate assistance, WPI
     Police provides many student-support resources and can liaison with
     most departments during off-hours. Please never hesitate to reach
     out to ask for help—they will be there quickly to help you. The phone
     number is on the back of your ID card and on the website.
     Save the emergency and non-emergency numbers in your phone:
     emergency is 508-831-5555; non-emergency is 508-831-5433.

     Tips for Safety on Campus
     • Lock your door when you leave your room.
     • Never leave valuables unattended.
     • When walking on campus at night, choose a well-lit route and try
       not to walk alone.
     • Across the campus you’ll see blue light (emergency) phones.
       Press the button at the blue light if you see something suspicious or
       feel unsafe.
     • Most campus buildings lock and require an ID to tap in after business
       hours. Never let anyone in who doesn’t also tap their ID.




74    [ back to contents ]
                                                              2023-24



Being Safe in Worcester
Worcester overall is generally a pretty safe place to be, but like any
other city it’s important to employ your safety smarts. Here are
some tips:
• Always pay attention to your surroundings and stay alert.
• Report any suspicious activity to the police immediately.
• Be aware of where you travel and bring a friend with you if you
  walk around at night.
• Lock your car and do not leave belongings visible in vehicles.
• If you live in an apartment off campus, make sure to secure
  your windows and lock your doors. If someone says they are a
  repairman, exterminator, etc. sent by your landlord, be sure to take
  the extra step and verify this. You can never be too careful.




      “that’s
          You are never going to have it all together. And
              OK. Because even though other people look
       like they’re balancing everything perfectly, they’re
      in the same boat as you. Prioritize whatever is most
         important to you, even if that’s not always your
        homework. Go to the event or party or stay in and
       take that nap. Everything will turn out OK, even if
              you’re not stressing out over it 24/7.
                                                        ”
                         Yashvi Gosalia ’25




                                                    [ back to contents ]   75
     G ompe i ’s Gui d e to WPI


     Alcohol and Drugs
     • Under-21 drinking and drug use (including marijuana) on
       campus, including residence halls, is not allowed. However, safety
       is the top concern so if you need help or are worried about a
       friend, do not hesitate to ask for assistance from your RA and/or
       WPI Police.
     • Never feel pressured to do anything that you don’t want to do—
       including drinking or drugs. If you see anyone being pressured or if
       you feel pressured, be sure to speak out.
     • If you do choose to drink, set a plan with friends about how many
       drinks you’ll consume and don’t exceed that plan.
     • Never leave your drink unattended and never take open drinks or
       drugs from people you do not know or fully trust.
     • Alternate drinks—for each alcoholic beverage you consume, have
       a non-alcoholic beverage.
     • Go to events with a friend and don’t leave each other at the event.
       Whomever you come with, go home with.
     • Plan your transportation in advance. Do not drink and drive.
     • If you are at a fraternity/sorority event and are not doing well,
       please approach a sober brother/sister. They are there to help you
       and you will not get in trouble—they will make sure you are safe
       and give you the assistance you need.




76    [ back to contents ]
                                                               2023-24



Alcohol and Drug Intervention Services at WPI
Staff members at the Student Development and Counseling Center
(SDCC) are always willing to speak with you in a professional, non-
judgmental—and of course, confidential—way at no cost to you.
Services at WPI include:
• Get Inclusive, a personal prevention program that helps students
  practice safer decision-making about alcohol
• Individual counseling, an honest conversation about alcohol use
  with a counselor at the SDCC, followed by goal setting to develop
  healthy lifestyle skills
• BASICS, a two-part self-assessment encouraging students to reflect
  honestly on their use of alcohol and explore the possibility of change
• Consultation for concerned friends and staff, a confidential
  discussion about others’ use of alcohol and what you can do to
  support someone
• Call 508-831-5540 or stop by the SDCC to make an appointment.
  Together with a counselor, you can assess how much alcohol or
  drugs are too much and collaborate on specific steps that can help
  you reduce or stop your drinking/taking drugs




    “effort
       WPI can be an amazing community if you put in the
            to form connections and make the most of your
    experience here. Try to stay positive and know that so
    many people are willing to help you if you just ask!
                                                                   ”
                           Micah Wilde ’23



                                                     [ back to contents ]   77
     G ompe i ’s Gui d e to WPI


     Sexual Misconduct Prevention, Support,
     and Reporting
     Anyone who has experienced sexual misconduct, relationship
     violence, stalking, harassment, or discrimination—or is aware of
     these things—is strongly encouraged to report such misconduct
     to WPI and to access the resources available on campus and in the
     community. If you are experiencing misconduct of any kind, you
     can find lots of great information on the website by scanning or
     clicking the QR code below.

     Ways to Report
     1.   Contact the Title IX Coordinator at titleix@wpi.edu
     2.    nonymous Reporting Form (click or scan QR code
          A
          to the right)
     3.   Contact WPI Police or Worcester Police
     4.    eport to any WPI employee (they must report the incident to
          R
          the Title IX Office)
     5.   Report confidentially to a Confidential Resource Advisor

     By reporting you can get support to:
     • learn about supportive measures, including but not limited to
       mutual no-contact orders and academic support.
     • understand reporting options and the grievance process.
     • access counseling/medical services.
     • file a formal complaint with the Title IX Coordinator or law
       enforcement (if requested).



78     [ back to contents ]
                                                             2023-24



Other Confidential Resources
• WPI Student Development & Counseling Center
  (for WPI students only)
  Phone 508-831-5540, sdcc@wpi.edu
• WPI Student Health Services (for WPI students only)
  Phone 508-831-5520, shs@wpi.edu
• WPI Collegiate Religious Center’s Campus Chaplains
  Phone 508-831-4174, diversity@wpi.edu
  (request an appointment with a Campus Chaplain)
• WPI Ombudspersons
  ombuds@wpi.edu
• Pathways for Change Rape Crisis Center
  Phone 800-870-5905 (24/7 hotline)
• YWCA Daybreak
  Phone 508-755-9030 (24/7 hotline)

Bias Incident Reporting
WPI is committed to creating an equitable, inclusive, and
anti-oppressive community where all are valued and
respected as intrinsic members of the community. As
part of our work to develop a campus culture that rejects
bias, prejudice, discrimination, and hateful acts, WPI has
established the Bias Response Program (BRP) in order to provide
support for individuals looking to better understand their reporting
options, serve as a resource and measure of accountability to formal
reporting channels, and advocate for individuals who may not be
comfortable pursuing formal reporting channels. You can learn more
about bias incidents and report a bias incident using the Online
Reporting Form by scanning or clicking the QR code to the right. Bias
incidents can also be reported to WPI Police.
                                                   [ back to contents ]   79
     G ompe i ’s Gui d e to WPI



     Technology You Should Know
     and Use
     We love all the tech tools to keep ourselves
     organized, connected, and succeeding in and out of the
     classroom.

     IT Helpdesk
     The Helpdesk team is available by phone, in person,
     on the web (click or scan QR code to the right) and can
     help with anything related to your personal computer
     or phone. Call 508-831-5888 or go to the Helpdesk in
     Gordon Library.

     Tools to Know
     Here are a few must-know and must-use tools.

     Workday
     • Workday is WPI’s primary information system
       on campus. Workday Student is used for course
       registration and it’s where you can find information
       on transcripts/schedules/academics, and your
       bill each semester. If you want to grant access to your parents/
       families to see information like grades and financial documents on
       Workday, you can do so by granting them third party proxy access
       by clicking or scanning the QR code to the right. Workday also a
       great resource for student employees and is where you’ll do your
       timesheets.




80    [ back to contents ]
                                                                2023-24



Outlook
• WPI uses email to communicate (and your future workplace
  probably will, too) so it’s important to use this tool. Read emails
  from WPI—they have a lot of important information.
• Outlook’s calendar is a great way to stay organized and scheduled.
  Put in class times so you don’t miss them, schedule time to work on
  homework, put in club meetings, and assignment due dates, too.
• Many organizations send you information for meetings/events
  with Outlook invites that go on your calendar.
• It’s also very convenient for scheduling meetings with others.
  You can view other people’s calendars by adding a new calendar
  through the address book and selecting a person.
• At the same time, it’s important to set limits for yourself. You don’t
  have to respond right away to every email—especially the ones
  that are sent at 2:00 a.m.
• No matter how you plan, make sure to schedule breaks or time for
  yourself on your calendar.

OneDrive
• Here you’ll find cloud drive storage connected to your @wpi.edu
  email. Clubs can also utilize the One Drive and SharePoint attached
  to a group email alias to hold documents for executive board and
  general body meeting (GBM) members.




                                                      [ back to contents ]   81
     G ompe i ’s Gui d e to WPI


     The WPI Mobile App
     • Here you’ll find everything WPI. This includes updates
       from WPI, information about events, and quick links
       to many resources. Scan the QR code to the right to
       download the app.

     Canvas
     • This is where a lot of your homework assignments, quizzes,
       readings, and class lecture handouts will live. You’ll also
       get important announcements from professors and turn in
       assignments using Canvas.
     • Assignments will show up on the Canvas calendar, which is helpful
       in keeping track of deadlines.
     • The Canvas phone app can be really helpful with reminding
       yourself about close deadlines.
     • If your class is using lecture capture through Lecture 360, you will
       find recordings linked here.
     • Many departments and programs also have Canvas pages (under
       “open courses”) such as the Makerspace, Academic Advising,
       Academic Resources Center, etc.

     MyWπ
     • Provides information about clubs and other activities
       happening on campus.
     • You can find contact information for club officers if you’re
       interested in joining.
     • While not every single event is on MyWπ, many are. You can even
       filter events by whether they offer free food/stuff.

82    [ back to contents ]
                                                                2023-24



The Hub—IT Site
• Has a how-to guide on everything you would ever
  need in terms of tech.
• Offers a lot of free software to download.
• Easy access tech help and online articles about many issues.

Slack
• While not an official WPI resource, Slack is heavily used by the WPI
  community. It can be the easiest way to contact certain people like
  your RA or CA in a time of need and lots of student organizations
  have Slack workspaces.

Discord
• Lots of WPI students are on Discord. This community,
  created and run by students, features members chatting
  about everything including sports, food, plants, classes,
  living on-campus, clubs, and more. Click or scan the QR
  code to the right to learn more.

GET Mobile Dining Plan
• The GET App allows students to check the number of
  meal swipes remaining, bonus points, and Goatbucks
  balances. You can also reload Goatbucks via credit
  card or Apple Pay. This is also where you can place
  mobile orders for some on-campus dining options.
  Click or scan QR code to the right to download the app.

Starship
• Use this app to order food for delivery from WPI’s robots.



                                                      [ back to contents ]   83
     G ompe i ’s Gui d e to WPI


     DineOnCampus
     • Click or scan the QR code to the right to find menus
       and dining location hours.

     Zoom
     • WPI’s web conferencing software. This is a great tool
       to have meetings with team members and to meet
       with faculty and staff.

     LaundryConnect
     • This app and website is attached to all washers and
       dryers on campus. Using the app, you can see if
       washers and dryers are free, see time remaining on your
       machine, and pay to start your washer. Click or scan the
       QR code to the right for more details.

     NetReg
     • This is the tool you use to get your devices connected
       to the WPI network. Your first step is to register them
       by clicking or scanning the QR code to the right.

     Machines and Tools for Your Projects
     • The Machine Shop in Goddard Hall has lots of cool equipment that
       can be used for projects.
     • The Makerspace in the Innovation Studio also has lots of cool tools
       and machines. For example, did you know there is a printed circuit
       board machine, laser cutters, and a 3D printer?
     • There is a resin printer in the IMGD lounge in Fuller.
     • The CollabLab in Higgins Labs has a lot of free tools as well.


84    [ back to contents ]
                                                             2023-24



Finances
Your Tuition and Financial Aid
Students can find their specific tuition and fee
information through their Workday account. Overall
tuition and fee information can be found on the
Bursar’s website. The Office of Financial Aid provides
detailed Cost of Attendance Budgets for undergraduate
and graduate students. Find out more by clicking or
scanning the QR code to the right.

Student Aid and Financial Literacy
WPI’s Student Aid and Financial Literacy staff are here to help you
navigate the financial aid application process and to answer any
questions you may have about paying for your college education.
The Office of Financial Aid is located in the Bartlett Center.
Appointments are available for meetings in person, virtually, or by
telephone.

Retaining Institutional Financial Aid
If you have aid, it’s important to know that you are
required to earn 24 credits in an academic year (A-D
Term) as well as meet several federal requirements if you
have federal/state financial aid. Learn more by clicking
or scanning the QR code to the right.




                                                   [ back to contents ]   85
     G ompe i ’s Gui d e to WPI


     Loans, Scholarships, and Grant Opportunities
     Loans are funds that you’ll pay back after you graduate. Grants and
     scholarships provide money that does not need to be paid back,
     which lowers the cost of paying for college. They are provided by WPI,
     the federal government, individual states, and private organizations.
     WPI has a number of resources for both scholarships and loans and
     financing options. If you need help, set up an appointment with the
     Office of Financial Aid. Don’t forget, you’ll need to fill out a FAFSA
     annually if you are interested in need-based aid.

     How to Get a Job on Campus
     There are many options for jobs on campus. Some jobs
     will require a federal work study. Many department
     offices have job opportunities. By clicking or scanning
     the QR code to the right you can view most of these
     opportunities that are listed on the WPI website. After
     reviewing the posting, reach out to the department contact to inquire
     about the position. If you have a resume, consider submitting it as
     well. Don’t get discouraged if you don’t have work study and see a lot
     of jobs posted as work study only. Do reach out, as sometimes offices/
     departments hire student hourly employees if not filled by a student
     with work study. Once hired, students get paid through direct deposit
     into their bank account upon completing timesheets in Workday.

     Paying Your Bill
     Bills are due on a semesterly basis. If you or your family need assistance
     with a payment plan, making a payment, or have other bill-related
     questions, contact the Bursar’s Office at bursar@wpi.edu.




86    [ back to contents ]
                                                              2023-24



Financial Literacy
The Office of Financial Aid offers a number of different resources
to help increase student financial literacy through the Financial
Wellness Program. This program includes resources on student
loans, budgeting, managing credit, and banking basics.

Resources If You’re Facing Difficulties
Sometimes an unforeseen situation arises, and you need some
emergency help. WPI has a few resources that can assist you in times
of need.
• Hull Loan Fund
  Immediate short-term loan for emergencies and unforeseen
  situations. The loans are generally $25-$300, 0% interest, and
  expected to be repaid in 30 days.
• Emergency Assistance Fund & Student Elevation Fund
  These grant funds can help provide support for unforeseen
  medical bills, expenses, or other hardships. The application is
  available on the Dean of Students website.
• Food Insecurity
  If you are experiencing hunger issues or food insecurity, reach out
  to the Dean of Students Office for help. They can offer you both
  short-term and long-term solutions, such as the Thrive Food Pantry,
  located within walking distance from campus on Grove Street.
Contact the Dean of Students Office staff at
dean_of_students@wpi.edu for additional information.




                                                    [ back to contents ]   87
     G ompe i ’s Gui d e to WPI



     Getting an Internship or a Job
     Choosing a Major
     • You don’t have to know your major or future career
       right at the onset of arriving at WPI. As a first-year
       student, allow yourself to explore before thinking about a career.
       Your interests might change once you learn more about the world.
     • The Career Development Center (Unity Hall) can help you explore–
       whether that be through taking their Discovering Majors and
       Careers course, meeting with a peer advisor during drop-in hours
       Monday through Friday from 12:00 to 4:00 p.m., or through an
       appointment with a Career Advisor.
     • You can also change your major after you declare. The record
       for the most major changes at WPI is 72 times! Many classes are
       interdisciplinary—take broad classes to start and you will find
       something that interests you.
     • Want to polish your resume or cover letter? Unsure about a job
       offer? Need help finding jobs? Come into the CDC Monday through
       Friday between 12:00 to 4:00 p.m. for a 15-minute drop-in or make
       an appointment with a Career Advisor.
     • Check out the CDC’s website for interview tips, help negotiating a
       salary offer, tips on finding an internship, and more.



                     “ Make that LinkedIn! It’s actually
                       worth the time and effort.
                                                   ”
               Emmanuel Ola ’23, who got a co-op via LinkedIn


88    [ back to contents ]
                                                             2023-24




       “grades
         Always remember that you are more than your
               or your achievements, you are not just a
       statistic. You are important and your mental and
     physical health should come before anything else. It
   is important to keep perspective because students can
   often get caught up in the fast-paced nature of WPI.
                                                                 ”
                          Micah Wilde ’23




Finding a Career Path
• WPI’s Career Development Center (CDC) offers extensive career
  services to help undergraduate students, graduate students, and
  alumni.
• Voted #5 for “Best Career Services” by The Princeton Review (2019),
  the CDC offers personalized services to help students and alumni
  explore their interests and assess their skills and values to make
  smart decisions related to their majors and careers.
• The CDC also brings over 400 employers and corporate partners
  to campus each year to help them find WPI students for full-time,
  part-time, summer internship, or co-op positions.
• Each year, the CDC hosts a wide variety of events—
  including career fairs, workshops, meetings with
  potential employers, and mock interviews—to give
  students and alumni the edge they need to succeed
  upon graduation. You can find more about the CDC’s
  workshops by clicking or scanning the QR code to the right.


                                                   [ back to contents ]   89
     G ompe i ’s Gui d e to WPI


     Career Outcomes by Major
     Did you know that WPI tracks first job placement rates,
     salaries, and graduate school attendance by major? Click
     or scan the QR code to the right to learn what they are.

     Employment Opportunities
     There are a couple of different types of employment you might
     experience while at WPI.
     • Platforms to Search: Handshake (wpi.joinhandshake.com, login
       with your WPI credentials), LinkedIn, and Indeed are 3 awesome
       job search platforms. Make an account and set those job alerts.
       Also, don’t confine yourself to what you find online. Tap into the
       hidden job market by reaching out to people and seeing what
       positions you can get just by speaking to them. They might not
       know they need a college student until you reach out.
     • Co-Ops: The Co-op (Co-operative Education) Program is a non-
       credit, paid work experience that complements and reinforces
       classroom learning while allowing undergraduate students to
       maintain active student status. It differs from an internship since
       students work full time at a company for 4-8 months, including
       part of the academic year. Find co-op experiences on Handshake.
     • Internships: Employment, generally over the summer months,
       with a company. You can find opportunities at the several career
       fairs offered each year or on Handshake.
     • Off-Campus Employment: Some students earn money by
       working during the academic year at either a company doing work
       associated with their major or at a local Worcester business.




90    [ back to contents ]
                                                              2023-24



• On-Campus Employment: Many students work on
  campus helping support faculty in their research labs,
  helping run programs and events, or supporting one
  of WPI’s many buildings. Many jobs can be found
  at wpi.edu/+HR or keep an eye on your email for
  research opportunities. Some students have even
  landed jobs by talking directly with professors doing
  work in an area of interest.

Career Fairs
Offered several times throughout the year, in person and virtually,
this is your chance to meet with one or more of over 400 employers
who interact with WPI students through career fairs. Dress in business
attire, print out resumes, bring a folder for business cards, and most
important, always be kind (the person you just held the Rec Center
door for may be an employer at the first booth you visit). Pro tip:
Don’t go to your favorite company first, go to a few as practice first.




          “ Employers NEED your skills. I know it’s
        sometimes a drag to put a resume together and
          can seem to be a lot of work, but deep down
         don’t you want to talk about yourself? I put off
         building my resume for weeks because I didn’t
       think I would be good enough. I made my resume
        and applied to over 30 internships in a day and
             eventually got one! You got this too!!
                                                        ”
                          Vrandol Perez ’23



                                                    [ back to contents ]   91
     G ompe i ’s Gui d e to WPI



     Who to Contact
     Who Do You Talk To If You or a Friend
     Needs Help?
     There are so many people here on campus who want to
     help you. While the list of supporters is extensive, here are a few folks
     to start with.

     Community Advisor (CA)
     CAs provide new students with an introduction to campus and
     its resources, assisting them with implementing assessment
     instruments, preparing them for academic advising with their faculty
     advisor, and representing WPI from a fellow student’s perspective.
     Your CA can help you get more involved on campus, get connected
     with support resources, or questions about courses.

     Resident Advisor (RA)
     RAs are responsible for the community development and support of
     residents in a particular section or floor of a residence hall. You can
     go to your RA if you are having roommate conflicts, questions about
     courses, or are looking for advice.




             “ You get out of it what you put in! Put yourself
            out there, attend events, say hi to your neighbors,
                    and ALWAYS put yourself first.
                                                           ”
                              Michaela Cluett ’23



92    [ back to contents ]
                                                            2023-24



Program Ambassadors (PA)
PAs provide leadership and peer support for students who
participate in the Connections Pre-Orientation Program. They are
a helpful resource for acclimating students to campus life and
navigating the WPI experience for those who are underrepresented
in STEM.

Community Director (Residential Services Office, East Hall,
508-831-5645)
If you live on campus, your Community Director is the professional
staff member who supervises your RA and manages your residence
hall. They can help you with roommate conflicts, facilities issues,
questions about getting connected on campus, checking in with a
student who needs support, or q uestions about housing.

Academic Advisors: Advisor in Academic Advising/
Faculty Advisor
Your academic advisor and/or faculty advisor can provide
supplemental support to you to help you create academic plans,
explore career options, choose classes, and make a plan to reach
your academic goals. Contact information for your specific support
people can be found in Workday.

Dean of Students Office (Rubin Campus Center,
508-831-5201)
The Dean of Students Office can help support students who are
experiencing any difficulties on campus—they often serve as a
bridge to other resources when a student is not sure where to go.
They manage emergency grants and loan funds to help students
experiencing emergency situations, as well as support the student
conduct process.


                                                  [ back to contents ]   93
     G ompe i ’s Gui d e to WPI


     Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Multicultural Education
     (20 Schussler Road, 508-831-5796)
     The ODIME provides student resources for multicultural education,
     support, community, and advocacy for all WPI students. It assists
     underrepresented students in STEM (i.e., BIPOC/ALANA, LGBTQIAP+,
     women, first-generation, low-income, religious students, etc.) with
     navigating their WPI experience and provides both space and
     community for these populations to be themselves with people
     who share similar identities and backgrounds through their various
     identity centers.

     Student Development and Counseling Center (16 Einhorn
     Road, 508-831-5540)
     The SDCC offers free and confidential individual counseling sessions
     and group counseling sessions. If you have concerns for a friend, the
     SDCC can provide advice about how to proceed.




             “ Success looks very different to everyone. My
         expectations for myself and academics have changed
         to better meet my wellness and my academic success.
           Do not compare yourself to others. Instead, talk to
          others. Chances are people are having difficulty with
                      the same things you do.
                                                     ”
                             Hailey Anderson ’23




94    [ back to contents ]
                                                               2023-24



CARE Form
Fill out an “I’m Concerned About a Student” form, also
called a CARE Form. This form will go to the CARE Team,
which is a team of staff who meet weekly during the
academic year. A member of the team will then reach
out to you and, as appropriate, your friend. Scan or click
the QR code to the right to fill out this form.




                                                     [ back to contents ]   95
100 Institute Road | Worcester, MA 01609 | wpi.edu
